Category: https://bdnews24.com/stripe

Title: Mini-skirts of the future: How 2nd wave feminism and fashion influenced ‘Star Trek’

The sci-fi series offers an intriguing glimpse into the fashion discourse of the swinging 60s

The original Star Trek series inspired a franchise that defined the science fiction genre and became a cultural touchstone. To modern viewers, though, the series will immediately seem outdated for its choice of fashion and interior design.

The swinging 60s are alive and well in the future of Star Trek, full of vibrant colours, mod fashions, and unique fabric choices. But what modern viewers may miss is the subtle feminist commentary in its costume design.

The women of the 23rd century, living 300 years in the future, must surely have a range of comfortable and practical choices of clothing. So why do the capable crew members on board – such as communications officer Nyota Uhura – wear miniskirts?

It’s a striking choice bound to raise eyebrows, particularly because ‘The Cage’ - the initial unaired pilot made for the show – largely showed the female crew in long sleeves and trousers.

But, just as the USS Enterprise stepped into the final frontier, exploring uncharted worlds and boldly going where no man had gone before, the women of Starfleet were also unearthing a new undiscovered country through some of the shortest skirts seen on the TV screen.

The driving force was, of course, the 1960s movement for the social and sexual liberation of women. It was a time when women were pouring into the workforce, more active and visible in the economy than before. The commercial availability of the birth control pill also gave women more control over their sexual and reproductive rights. This paradigm shift was also apparent in the fashion of the era. Gone were long skirts, stockings, girdles and petticoats. Instead, the vanguard shifted to the miniskirts and go-go boots off the racks of British designer Mary Quant. The miniskirt became a symbol of the movement, even worn by feminist frontrunners like Germaine Greer and Gloria Steinem.

The miniskirt became so closely associated with the movement that when fashion brand Dior didn't include them in its 1966 show, a group called the 'British Society for the Protection of Mini Skirts' protested outside.

As Star Trek grew into a science fiction institution and trends and tastes changed, the miniskirt fell out of favour. Nichelle Nichols, the actress who played Uhura on the show, was regularly asked questions about the particular choices taken by the production.

"In later years, especially as the women’s movement took hold in the seventies, people began to ask me about my costume,” she said. “Some thought it 'demeaning' for a woman in the command crew to be dressed so sexily. It always surprised me because I never saw it that way. After all, the show was created in the age of the miniskirt, and the crew women’s uniforms were very comfortable.”

“Contrary to what many may think today, no one really saw it as demeaning back then. In fact, the miniskirt was a symbol of sexual liberation. More to the point, though, in the 23rd century, you are respected for your abilities regardless of what you do or do not wear."

With today’s modern lens, the connection to that larger movement is less obvious. But, for its time, the show was quite contemporary and even progressive in its values.

The main cast was composed of a diverse crew of different backgrounds, nationalities, and ethnicities. Uhura, James Doohan’s Scotty, George Takei’s Hikaru Sulu, and Walter Koenig’s officer Pavel Chekov were all important recurring characters. The show took the daring step of depicting a future where people of colour took central roles, where Americans served alongside Russians, and men and women worked together at a time when many women would not consider a career. It’s a look back at a fascinating time, showing us the different ways women can choose to express themselves in different eras. And, even if the miniskirts of the future look outdated today, let’s remember that old fashions have a way of coming back.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Artists and artisans come together at the Faculty of Fine Art to make masks and floats for the Pohela Boishakh procession



Title: When fans turn into foes: The dangers of misplaced online aggression

The anonymity of social media allows people to lash out at any target, regardless of whether they deserve it

The world of social media is constantly changing, with emerging trends ranging from lighthearted goofs to full-blown controversies. Recently, a Bangladeshi clothing page named MEHER posted a picture of a young man named Rehan wearing a Punjabi on Facebook, sparking a flurry of objectifying comments from some female users. While the initial objectification is concerning, the situation took an unexpected turn when other girls, confused by the hype, directed their frustration at the model. This incident underscores a troubling aspect of social media behaviour - misplaced aggression.

Misplaced aggression or displaced aggression occurs when someone experiencing negative emotions vents their anger or frustration onto someone unrelated to the source of their distress. In this case, rather than confronting the objectifying remarks head-on, the girls who were perplexed by Rehan's objectification ultimately turned their wrath on him. As he was easy to identify, he became the target of their annoyance and they began to bully him.

Social media's anonymity can make it easy for people to lash out impulsively. The fast pace of online interactions and the text format can also make it difficult to fully understand the emotions of others and the intention behind their posts. This lack of context can lead to misunderstandings, fueling misplaced aggression. The consequences can be significant.

Sometimes, the real source of our anger is someone we feel afraid to confront, like a boss or parent. Taking it out on someone else who seems "safer" is a release for this pent-up emotion without risking negative consequences.

When we're overwhelmed by anger, we can lash out at the nearest target instead of pinpointing the exact cause. Occasionally, misdirecting our anger is an unconscious way of protecting ourselves. By directing the anger elsewhere, we avoid having to deal with the real motivation for our distress. It is important to recognise that displaced aggression often stems from unresolved emotional issues. Learning healthy ways to manage these emotions can help us avoid taking out our anger on the wrong person.

When someone is angry and acting inappropriately, resisting them may not have the best outcome. It may only fuel their rage and frustration, making the problem worse. But we can try to create a more positive and welcoming social media environment by understanding when our anger is misplaced and taking more care when interacting online.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: What’s next for Christopher Nolan?

After taking home Oscars for Best Director and Best Picture, the future looks as bright as ever for the renowned filmmaker

Only a handful of directors ever reach the status of household names, but Christopher Nolan is definitely one of them. With only a dozen movies to his name, he has carved out an unforgettable mark on the cinema world.

While Nolan is popularly known for his mind-bending narratives and distaste for CGI, his work explores deeper topics of human morality, the nature of time, and the construction of personal activity. His movies are not only blockbusters, they also leave you something to think about. After the cult hit Memento, the superhero crime epic of the Dark Knight trilogy, and the twisty Inception, Nolan swept this year’s Oscars with the biopic Oppenheimer.

With every entry in his filmography, the uproar grows louder. The impressive leads to one inevitable question from his fans – what’s next for Christopher Nolan?

Nolan is notoriously secretive about his upcoming projects. This secrecy only fans the flames of those excited about a glimpse of the next big thing. After all, what other modern director has been able to deliver theatrical experiences unlike any before amid such increasing pressure and sky-high expectations?

So, what could his next project be?

A quirk of his filmography is that he often follows an adapted story with an original one. But, this time, rumours say that he might opt for another adaptation or, possibly, a remake.

One project that might grab his attention is a reimagining of The Prisoner. Originally airing in 1967, the British TV show follows a secret agent spirited away to a strange village when he tenders his resignation. Though the place seems perfect from the outside, its reality is quite different. Without giving too much away, the Patrick McGoohan vehicle is full of mystery, plot twists, and a quirky style that has made it an enduring cult classic and may be right up Nolan’s alley.

There is, of course, another British spy franchise that could use the Nolan touch. As fans of the director may know from his interviews, Nolan loves James Bond. With Daniel Craig set to depart after a decade and a half in the role, speculation is heating up about the future of the beloved series. Rumours are swirling about a meeting between series producer Barbara Broccoli and the eminent director. It would be a massive shot in the arm for the franchise to have its next entry helmed by such an accomplished filmmaker. Nolan, for his part, has continued to deny the gossip.

But, of course, it’s impossible to say for sure. Nolan’s infamous caginess will likely mean that he will deny whatever speculation drums up. The only sure way to get an answer is to wait. The filmmaker has consistently maintained a gap of about three years between his movies. So, until 2027, we’ll have to re-watch his older films to build up the hype.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Things I miss about Ramadan

Have we stopped valuing the small things that meant so much to us when we were young, or is it just the curse of growing up?

There are lots of things I miss about the Ramadans of my childhood:

Going to bed early so I could have Sehri with my family, only to oversleep and substitute breakfast for my last meal instead (This never stopped me from going about telling everyone ‘I am fasting’ with a bright smile)

The half-day fasts I devised from morning Sehri to noon to feel like I was doing my part

Seeing my family pray and immediately taking out a prayer mat, copying their movements, and mumbling along in the hope I was able to follow what my elders were saying in their prayers

Accidentally drinking water, then checking left and right before trying to convince myself, “If no one saw it, then it never happened”

Actually waking up for Sehri on time and staying up after Fajr prayers to see the beautiful sunrise and bask in its golden glow before returning to bed

School being closed for nearly an entire month

The feast the women of the family would spend the entire day making

Sitting patiently at the table and waiting for the Magrib Azaan. Then, praying together with my family for a few minutes before we broke our fast

Accompanying my Ammu or Khala to the door to hand out food to the street kids after breaking our fast. My family would always have some food ready for them

Bragging to friends, classmates and peers about how many days I had fasted

Planning to buy the perfect dress for Eid

Patiently waiting for Eid Day with an eye on the salami I would receive from my elders

Pre-planning all the things I would buy with my Eid salami

Waking up before everyone else on Eid Day, taking a shower, getting dressed up, and going to a nearby friend’s house

Losing track of the time during Eid celebrations and falling asleep with a smile

Now, I look back on those days and feel nostalgic.

It seems like, as time goes on and we grow up, we start feeling less and less excited about the little things that bring joy to our daily lives. Over the years, I’ve lost many of the things that brightened up the days of Ramadan.

What holds us back? Is it the current state of the world? The sorrow of not being able to help those who are suffering?

Are we too drained of emotional energy by the constant reminders that the world is not a happy place?

Looking back at my childhood I think of golden times when I was more present instead of being glued to my phone all the time. When I took an active part in the daily things that make Ramadan a month to remember.

For the sake of those lovely days, I’ve come up with a small plan this year. To be more present and engaged in all the little things I can do with my family – helping to prepare Iftar, setting out plates, going to neighbours’ homes to share Iftar.

Maybe those golden days aren’t gone just yet. Perhaps all I need to do is put in the effort to make this Ramadan as joyous and memorable as those of the past.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



An emerging artist pays tribute to a major influence on her work



Title: Sparks between Gosling, Blunt ignite interest in ‘The Fall Guy’

The sizzling chemistry between the two leads at the Oscars seems to carry over to the upcoming action comedy

‘Barbenheimer’ was the biggest thing in movies last year. The unexpected double bill dominated the imagination of fans worldwide, propelling both films to massive box office success, even at the Oscars. And it was at the Oscars that a couple of stars from each film took to the stage.

Emily Blunt and Ryan Gosling are familiar faces to fans of Hollywood movies, but I had never seen them together before. Their easy, playful banter was magnetic and immediately ignited my curiosity about whether it would translate to on-screen chemistry in their upcoming collaboration The Fall Guy.

Inspired by the 1980s TV series of the same name, the movie tells the story of Colt Seavers (Ryan Gosling), a struggling stuntman past his prime who gets a shot to work on the latest blockbuster featuring action star Tom Ryder (Aaron Taylor-Johnson). To his surprise, the film’s director is his ex-girlfriend Jody Moreno (Emily Blunt). To make things worse, Tom suddenly vanishes under mysterious circumstances. Colt, driven by honour and lingering affection, embarks on a mission to find Tom and salvage Jody’s film.

But, what begins as a man-hunt soon turns into a deadly game of cat and mouse as long-buried secrets surface and plunge characters into deadly peril.

The trailer shows Gosling in top form, melding his action chops from Drive and The Grey Man with the comedic touches from Barbie and The Nice Guys. His connection with Blunt is clear even among the quick snippets and snappy edits. The frisson between the two is undeniable.

The project is in the sturdy hands of director David Leitch, whose filmography includes John Wick, Deadpool 2, and Nobody.

The Fall Guy promises an action-packed ride full of thrills, witty banter, and sizzling chemistry. The two trailers have already racked up millions of views and for good reason. I’m eagerly anticipating the film’s blend of sharp action with humour and relatable characters.

The Fall Guy premiers on May 3 and I, for one, will be early in line for a ticket.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Throwback Thursday: The warm comfort of 'Full House'

The classic sitcom harkens back to a golden age of loving family dynamics and valuable life lessons

A lot of us look back on a golden age in our lives. For many of us, it was our childhoods. That era when everything was warm and comfortable, but still exciting. And few shows capture those feelings with the depth and specificity of Full House.

The American sitcom started in 1987 – before I was even born - became a huge hit, and ran for eight seasons until 1995. Premiering in the heyday of the three-camera sitcom, Full House stood out because of its unusual family dynamics.

The show starts with widower Danny (Bob Saget) asking his brother-in-law Jesse (John Stamos) and best friend Joey (Dave Coulier) to help raise his three girls – the practical DJ (Candace Cameron Bure), the sarcastic Stephanie (Jodie Sweetin), and the precocious Michelle (played jointly by Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen).

The unconventional nature of the main cast’s relationships is what makes the show as the audience follows three flawed kind-hearted men as they take on the task of raising three wonderful, but very different children.

Men rarely take on the job of raising children in our society. But Full House offers a gender role reversal, making all of the parental figures male in a direct challenge to social norms and traditions. But that doesn’t mean the kids suffer from a lack of feminine influence in their lives.

Each of the adults finds ways to connect with and balance their masculine and feminine energies to ensure that the kids grow up in an environment that provides them with the necessary nourishment and love.

Danny is a great father, playing the role of the responsible one. His position as the breadwinner burdens him with additional obligations, but he learns to balance his work responsibilities with the time he needs to devote to his daughters. He’s the grown up of the show – making the decisions necessary to ensure a good future for his kids.

Joey, his best friend, is the show’s goofball. He works as a stand-up comedian, often imitating a slew of cartoon characters. Though he’s often the silliest character, his indirect approach can cut to the heart of the matter. Through his antics, he can tackle heavy topics without making things dark and ends up sneaking in words of wisdom under the guise of humour.

But the scene stealer of the show is Uncle Jesse - the instant heartthrob with his Elvis aesthetic and intense charisma. And he’s also the character who grows and changes the most throughout the show. He starts off as something of an irresponsible layabout who’s too focused on his hair and dreams of rock stardom to really grow up. But, as he takes care of his nieces and becomes closer with them, he comes to see things – and himself – in a new light.

Watching these men develop more as people alongside the children they raise is like free therapy. You’ll laugh, you’ll cry, and maybe even pick up some valuable lessons along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Melodies of grief: What I learnt about myself by playing the kalimba

As I learned to play the African musical instrument, emotions I had long hidden away floated to the surface

I’ve always been a quiet person. I never had the easiest time with words or people. The skies were the only ones who knew my stories.

I often thought that those who could express themselves without words were lucky.

I longed to be able to do that. To find an instrument that could convey my feelings. Something that could carry a melody, but was easy to hide. I wanted a way to enjoy playing music without bothering other people.

That’s when I first learned about the kalimba.

The kalimba is a modern interpretation of an African instrument, traditional to the Shona people of Zimbabwe. It consists of a wooden board attached to staggered metal tines. You hold it in your hands and pluck at the prongs with your fingers and thumbs.

I thought it was perfect for me – small, unassuming, with a soft, pleasant sound.

What I didn’t expect was my emotional reaction to playing it.

The first song I learned was the American country standard ‘You Are My Sunshine’. My friends and I thought it was a pretty, if simple, song.

But, when I got to the part where the singer says, “I dreamed I held you in my arms, but when I woke, dear, I was mistaken,” I felt tears welling up.

In that instant, I was thinking of Mickey.

Mickey was my pet. He died when he was only four months old. I still craved the touch of his little paws. Playing the song stirred my memories of holding him.

Since his death, I had locked that sadness away, never confronting it. But, as I plucked at my kalimba, it bubbled up inside me, demanding to be acknowledged.

For the first time, instead of turning away, I confronted it. And the outcome of that confrontation was the music. It felt cathartic.

I then turned to other songs that had resonated with me, like ‘Runaway’ and ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’. Through the kalimba I explored the emotional complexity of lines like, "And I was running far away; would I run off the world someday?" and "Mama, I don't want to die; I sometimes wish I'd never been born at all."

As the instrument resonated in my hand, I looked into the depths of my grief. I saw the pain that had lingered through a thousand tiny cuts and deep, wounding gashes. Places that scar tissue had covered, but not healed. I felt the demands they had made on me through the years and acknowledged that hurt.

The music of the kalimba comforted me, but it also pushed me to grow and become stronger.

Recently, I played the song ‘500 Miles’. One line stuck with me - "Lord, I can't go back home this way." At that moment I realised that this was only the start of the journey. There were more emotions to uncover and truths to find.

Through the simple act of playing the kalimba, I’ve discovered the truth of the old idea that music can illuminate the darkest corners of our souls.

Now, alongside the skies, the kalimba has started to hear all my stories. But they are still a bit different. The skies know all the questions I have asked them throughout my life. The kalimba has started unpacking the answers.

Sometimes, though, it can be overwhelming. Sometimes my exploration hits a spot that is too sharp and raw. The last song I tried to play was ‘Time in a Bottle’. It completely eluded me. Sometimes I don’t even want to look at the kalimba.

There is still a long way to go on my emotional journey. For now, I’m taking a rest stop. But, when I’m ready, I know the kalimba will be there to guide me along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Dias injury latest blow in Manchester City's calamitous run

Defender Akanji has returned to training after injury, boosting Guardiola's squad

Football - Premier League - Manchester City v Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - Dec 15, 2024 Manchester United's Rasmus Hojlund in action with Manchester City's Ruben Dias Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff/File Photo

Manchester City will be without defender Ruben Dias for three to four weeks with a muscle injury, manager Pep Guardiola said on Friday, another blow for the reeling champions whose hopes of hanging on to the Premier League title are dwindling.

City travel to Aston Villa on Saturday hoping to right the ship amid the worst run of results in Guardiola's managerial career that has them languishing fifth in the league table. They also have just one victory to show for their last 11 games across all competitions.

Dias was injured in City's calamitous 2-1 derby loss to Manchester United on Sunday.

"It was a muscular injury, (after) 75 minutes against Manchester United he felt something. He is so strong and he stayed on the pitch and now he is injured," Guardiola told reporters on Friday.

Fellow defender Manuel Akanji, however, returned to training this week after suffering an injury early this month, "which is good for us," Guardiola said.

City lost to United in spectacular fashion last weekend, leading in the 88th minute before their cross-town rivals scored two goals in less than two minutes.

Guardiola looked disconsolate after, and pointed the finger squarely at himself for the shocking run, telling reporters during a long and heartfelt post-game press conference that "I am not good enough."

His mood had improved by Friday.

"I just finished a game where we were close to winning and we lost. For the sequences that happened I was not happy," Guardiola said. "I tried to be honest with myself here right now in six or seven days ago, (but) if you fall down six times you have to stand up seven.

"I am fine. I am a normal person with feelings like all of us. When a situation is going well we are better and when it is not going well professionally we are more (focused) on what we have to do."

Just two points and two places behind Guardiola's team in the league table, Aston Villa will climb over City with a victory on Saturday at Villa Park.

Unai Emery's team have also had significantly more success than City in their Champions League campaign, where they are fifth in the standings with two games left in the league phase while City are languishing in 22nd.

"I'm not surprised. Top, excellent manager. (They had good success) qualifying for the Champions League and the results in the Champions League they speak for themselves," Guardiola said. "They are handling it well because when I have been in many clubs handling both competitions, they have done really well."

City lost 1-0 at Villa Park just over a year ago before rebounding to thrash Emery's side 4-1 in early-April. Guardiola said, however, there was little he could glean from those games.

"Why do you have to compare what happened?" the Spaniard said. "The past is the past, this is a new moment, you have to deal with it."



Title: Pakistan outplay South Africa to earn 81-run ODI win at Newlands

South Africa's batters faltered as Pakistan claimed regular wickets

Cricket - T20 World Cup - Semi Final - South Africa v Afghanistan - Brian Lara Stadium, Tarouba, Trinidad and Tobago - Jun 26, 2024 South Africa's Anrich Nortje in action REUTERS/Ash Allen/File Photo

Shaheen Shah Afridi produced a spell of high-quality seam bowling as Pakistan claimed their One-Day International series against South Africa with a game to spare following a comprehensive 81-run victory at Newlands on Thursday.

Pakistan have an unassailable 2-0 lead ahead of the third and final fixture in Johannesburg on Sunday.

South Africa surprisingly sent the visitors into bat on a ground where it is known to be difficult to chase under lights, and Pakistan posted an above-par 329 all out.

Heinrich Klaasen provided the only real resistance for South Africa with an excellent 97 from 74 balls but was the last man out as they were dismissed for 248 in 43.1 overs, having been outplayed in all facets of the game.

Captain Mohammad Rizwan scored 80 from 82 balls to anchor the Pakistan innings, but the impetus for their total came from a superb 63 from 32 deliveries by Kamran Ghulam.

Babar Azam provided 73 in 95 deliveries with the visitors profiting from some sloppy South African fielding as they dropped numerous catches and were not accurate enough with the ball.

Debutant fast bowler Kwena Maphaka, 18, returned figures of 4-72 in his 10 overs, the pick of a disappointing bowling effort from South Africa.

Several of the home side’s batters got starts but Pakistan picked up wickets at regular intervals and Klaasen ran out of partners in the chase.

Afridi showed superb control and recorded figures of 4-47 as he ripped through the South African middle order, removing the dangerous David Miller for 29 to take the game away from the home side.



Title: Barcelona unhappy with recent run but will fight to the end, says Flick

They lead LaLiga with 38 points, ahead of Atletico and Real

Football - Champions League - Borussia Dortmund v FC Barcelona - Signal Iduna Park, Dortmund, Germany - Dec 11, 2024 FC Barcelona coach Hansi Flick reacts REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay

Barcelona will battle until the end to win titles, according to head coach Hansi Flick, who said he was unhappy with their current situation as they look to avoid a third consecutive home defeat in LaLiga when they host Atletico Madrid on Saturday.

After a superb start to the season which saw them win 14 of their first 16 matches across all competitions, Barcelona lost their way domestically with Sunday's 1-0 home defeat to 15th-placed Leganes leaving them with one victory in their last six league games.

But they remain top of the LaLiga table with 38 points, level with second-placed Atletico and one point ahead of Real Madrid in third, with both their title rivals having a game in hand.

To make matters worse for the Catalan side, Atletico have been in terrific form ahead of the highly-anticipated clash at the Lluis Companys Olympic Stadium, having won their last 11 matches in all competitions.

"What I can feel in the city and the supporters know what the team is like. We lost five important players. (Attacking midfielder) Dani Olmo and (forward) Pau Victor are the (new) signings. The team has improved and is focused," Flick told reporters on Friday.

"We are not happy with the situation, but we are going to fight until the end of the season. We want to win titles, but we know it won't be easy. But we want to win, that's what we want to do tomorrow."

The German said there will be little room for error if they are to win against Atletico, but they were ready for the occasion.

"It's the end of the year. It's a great game. It's one of the best rivals. But today is Dec. 20 and we're first in LaLiga and second in the Champions League. We are not bad. We lost some points against Las Palmas (2-1 loss) and Leganes, we have to recover them," Flick added.

"Tomorrow is another game. We have a young team and we have to fight and improve. We want to achieve great things. But we know it won't be easy. We have to start fighting tomorrow. We are playing against great teams."

Barcelona have suffered a blow with winger Lamine Yamal suffering an ankle injury during their loss against Leganes. The 17-year-old Spain international is expected to be out for three to four weeks.

"We have to accept that he is injured and won't be able to play," Flick said.



Title: U-19 Women's Asia Cup: Bangladesh breeze past Nepal to set up final clash with India

The Tigresses beat Nepal by 9 wickets in Kuala Lumpur

Bangladesh have trounced Nepal by 9 wickets to secure a berth in the final of the Under-19 Women’s Asia Cup.

On Friday, the young Tigresses bounced back in style from their earlier loss to India in the Super Four stage opener in Kuala Lumpur.

In a rain-curtailed 11-over game, Nepal managed just 54 runs, which Bangladesh chased down comfortably in 9.5 overs.

Bangladesh will face India in the final on Sunday at the same venue.

After winning the toss, Bangladesh opted to field and immediately put pressure on Nepal. A combination of tight bowling and poor running between the wickets left Nepal struggling. Three of their first four wickets were run-outs within the first six overs.

Nepal's highest partnership was a 19-run stand between captain Puja Mahato and Sabitri Dhami for the second wicket. Dhami, the only batter to reach double figures, scored 11 off 12 balls.

Farjana Easmin, Anisa Akter, Fahomida Choya, and Habiba Islam chipped in with a wicket apiece for Bangladesh.

Chasing a modest target, openers Fahomida and Mosammat Eva got the Tigresses off to a flying start. Fahmida struck boundaries in consecutive overs, while Eva hit the only six of the match in the fifth over.

The opening partnership of 46 runs ended in the eighth over when Eva was bowled by Kusum Godar for 18 off 21 balls. However, Fahomida guided her team across the finish line with an unbeaten 26 off 32 balls, alongside Sumaiya Akhter, who added 10 runs off six balls.

Fahomida was named Player of the Match for her all-round performance.

Match Summary:

Nepal U-19: 54/8 in 11 overs (Dhami 11, Mahato 9; Farzana 1/13, Anisa 1/10, Fahomida 1/14, Habiba 1/11)

Bangladesh U-19: 58/1 in 9.5 overs (Fahomida 26*, Eva 18, Sumaiya 10*)

Result: Bangladesh won by 9 wickets.

Player of the Match: Fahomida Choya



Title: Bangladesh crush West Indies by 80 runs to complete T20 series sweep

After setting a daunting target of 190, the visitors bundle out the Caribbean side for 109 runs to win the third T20

Bangladesh have romped to a resounding 80-run win in the third and final T20 match against the West Indies to sweep the series 3-0. This is Bangladesh's biggest win in T20Is against the Caribbean side.

The Tigers had only achieved whitewashes in T20 series twice before: against England at home last year and against Ireland away in 2012.

However, this victory carries extra significance. Coming on the heels of a disappointing ODI series whitewash, and achieved without key players like regular captain Najmul Hossain Shanto, Towhid Hridoy, and Mustafizur Rahman, the triumph marks a memorable end to a challenging year for Bangladesh cricket.

The match in St Vincent on Friday morning Bangladesh time saw Parvez Hossain Emon returning to the side and giving the team a solid start with the bat. Jaker Ali then stole the show with a blistering knock, helping the visitors post a commanding total of 189 runs in their 20 overs.

In reply, the West Indies collapsed for just 109 runs to hand a remarkable victory to Bangladesh.

Jaker lit up the match with a breathtaking 72* off just 41 balls, smashing six sixes and displaying incredible skill, power, and match awareness. Earlier in the tour, he impressed with two brilliant Test innings and solid ODI performances. He capped off the T20 series by dismantling the West Indies bowlers with ease.

Once Jaker set the tone, the Bangladeshi bowlers completed the job with minimal fuss. Rishad Hossain, who has had an outstanding year, posted his career-best figures of 3 wickets for 21 runs. Taskin Ahmed, Mahedi Hasan, and Hasan Mahmud also bowled with precision and rhythm to put the squeeze on one of the most dangerous teams in cricket's shortest format.

DOMINANT START

After winning toss and electing to bat, Bangladesh dominated from the get-go in Kingstown. Parvez, stepping in for the injured Soumya Sarkar, began with a classy boundary and soon showcased his power hitting. Alongside skipper Litton Das, he put up a brisk opening stand of 40 runs in the first four overs.

However, Litton’s promising start, highlighted by three elegant boundaries, ended in disappointment as he was dismissed for a run-a-ball 13. Parvez followed soon after, falling for a quickfire 39 off 20 balls, including four boundaries and two sixes.

The momentum slowed after Tanzid Hasan’s brief cameo, where he struck a six before being dismissed. The Tigers managed only 36 runs between the fifth and 10th overs. Mehidy Hasan Miraz attempted to hit the accelerator, scoring a handy 29 off 22 balls, but his innings ended prematurely.

Then came Jaker's moment. Starting cautiously with just 10 runs off 13 balls, he switched gears in the 14th over with a slog-swept six off Gudakesh Motie. Surviving a near run-out, Jaker took complete control, dominating the West Indies bowlers. His range of shots cleared every part of the ground—long-on, mid-wicket, and extra cover.

Despite quick dismissals of Shamim Hossain (2) and Mahedi (0), Jaker continued the onslaught. In the last five overs, he smashed five sixes and two boundaries, including a colossal 95-metre six off Obed McCoy. He brought up his fifty in style with a boundary off Alzarri Joseph and finished the innings by hammering three sixes in a 25-run final over as Bangladesh ended with a commanding total of 189 for 6.

CLINICAL BOWLING DISPLAY

Defending the target, Bangladesh struck early. Taskin bowled an outswinger followed by an inswinger to trap Brandon King leg-before for a duck in the first over.

Mahedi then dismissed debutant Justin Greaves in the second over. While Johnson Charles and Nicholas Pooran counterattacked briefly, adding 34 runs in three overs, Bangladesh hit back quickly. Mahedi dismissed Pooran (15 off 10) for the third time in the series, and Hasan Mahmud kept Roston Chase scoreless. Rishad’s brilliant direct hit ran out Charles (18 off 23), and soon after, he dismissed Rovman Powell with the ball.

The West Indies collapsed, losing four wickets for just 14 runs, leaving them teetering at 60/6. Romario Shepherd tried to rescue his side with a spirited 33 off 27 balls, but his efforts only helped the hosts cross 100 as Bangladesh cruised to a comprehensive victory.

Brief Score:

Bangladesh: 189/7 in 20 overs (Litton 14, Parvez 39, Tanzid 9, Miraz 29, Jaker 72* (41 balls, 6 sixes), Shamim 2, Mahedi 0, Tanzim 17, Rishad 0*; Shepherd 4-0-30-2, Joseph 4-0-59-1, Chase 4-0-15-1, Motie 3-0-30-1)

West Indies: 109 in 16.4 overs (King 0, Charles 23, Greaves 6, Pooran 15, Chase 0, Powell 2, Shepherd 33, Akeal 31, Motie 12, Joseph 1, McCoy 5, Seales 4*; Rishad 4-0-21-3, Taskin 3.4-0-30-2, Mahedi 3-0-13-2, Hasan 3-0-9-1, Tanzim 3-0-31-1)

Result: Bangladesh won by 80 runs

Series result: Bangladesh won the 3-match series 3-0

Player of the Match: Jaker Ali

Player of the Series: Mahedi Hasan



Title: Argentina still best in the world, says FIFA

They keep top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year

Copa America 2024 - Final - Argentina v Colombia - Hard Rock Stadium, Miami, Florida, United States - Jul 15, 2024 Argentina's Lionel Messi lifts the trophy as he celebrates with teammates after winning Copa America 2024 REUTERS/Agustin Marcarian

Reigning world champions Argentina have kept top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year, with no changes in the top 10 of the latest list published on Thursday.

Lionel Scaloni's Argentina, who were crowned Copa America champions for a record 16th time after they beat Colombia in July, continue to lead the way ahead of second-placed France and Euro 2024 winners Spain in third.

Euro runners-up England, Brazil, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and Germany were next in the top 10.

Angola were the biggest mover of the year, climbing 32 places to finish 85th.



