Category: https://bdnews24.com/entertainment

Title: Brazilian judge orders Adele song removed over plagiarism claim

Adele is accused of copying a song ‘Mulheres’, a national hit since the 1990s

Adele waves to singer Beyonce who is in the audience as she and co-song writer Greg Kurstin (not pictured) accept the Grammy for Song of the Year for "Hello" at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US , Feb 12, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson

A judge in Rio de Janeiro has ordered the global removal of a 2015 song by British singer Adele due to a plagiarism claim by a Brazilian musician, which Universal Music is fighting on appeal.

The ruling, made public on Monday, came in a case filed this year by Toninho Geraes, whose compositions were made famous by some of Brazil's most acclaimed samba singers.

Geraes accused Adele of copying his song "Mulheres", a national hit since the 1990s. His lawyers uploaded to YouTube a comparison of that song and Adele's "Million Years Ago".

"The ruling shows that the Brazilian justice system is strong and that injuries to Brazilian artists won't be ignored," said Fredimio Biasotto Trotta, a lawyer for Geraes.

The decision orders Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music to immediately cease "using, reproducing, editing, distributing, or commercializing" the song by any means on streaming or sharing platforms, without Geraes' consent. It set a fine of 50,000 reais ($8,080.94) if the companies fail to comply with the order.

The Berne Convention, an international treaty, orders other signatory countries, including the US, to comply with legal decisions regarding copyright, Trotta said.

Geraes' lawyers are now notifying streaming services, such as Spotify SPOT.N and Deezer, to withdraw the song in Brazil and globally. On Wednesday morning, the song was still widely available.

Universal appealed the decision on Tuesday, arguing there was no plagiarism, only an "accidental melodic similarity" due to the use of "musical clichés."

Both Adele and Geraes have contracts with Universal, but the Brazilian musician has been trying to terminate his contract with the company due to his plagiarism claim, his lawyer said.

"I felt very disrespected," Geraes told Reuters. He is asking the courts for compensation of more than $150,000.

Lawyers representing Universal Music declined to comment, and Sony Music did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

Geraes learned of the similarities between the two songs after a friend, who is also a composer, heard Adele's "Million Years Ago" at a party in 2021.



Title: Tabla legend Zakir Hussain dies at 73

The musician was the winner of 4 Grammy awards and the Padma Vibhushan, India’s second-highest civilian honour

Tabla maestro Zakir Hussain has died at a hospital in the US’s San Francisco, reports Indian broadcaster NDTV. He was 73.

Zakir died from complications due to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, according to a statement from the family.

He had been in hospital for the past two weeks and was shifted to intensive care when his condition deteriorated.

Zakir’s sister Khurshid Aulia said he passed away "very peacefully".

"He passed away very peacefully after the ventilation machine was switched off. This was 4pm San Francisco time," she told PTI.

The esteemed tabla great leaves behind a wife and two daughters.

"He leaves behind an extraordinary legacy cherished by countless music lovers around the globe, with an influence that will resonate for generations to come,” the family said.

Zakir was born on Mar 9, 1951, the son of heralded tabla master Ustad Alla Rakha.

Over a career that spanned six decades, he worked with renowned artists in India and abroad. His collaborators included Indian icons Ravi Shankar, Ali Akbar Khan and Shivkumar Sharma, as well as groundbreaking work with John McLaughlin, Yo-Yo Ma, Charles Lloyd, Bela Fleck, Edgar Meyer, Mickey Hart and George Harrison.

One of India’s most celebrated classical musicians, Zakir received the Padma Shri in 1988, Padma Bhushan in 2002, and the Padma Vibhushan -- India’s second-highest civilian honour -- in 2023.

He was also acclaimed on the international stage, taking home four Grammy Awards, including three at the ceremony earlier this year.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan hailed Zakir as "a beacon of India's rich musical heritage and a true custodian of classical traditions".

"Ustad Zakir Hussain was instrumental in popularising Indian music across the globe, serving as a beacon of India's rich musical heritage. A true custodian of classical traditions, his contributions to the arts remain unparalleled. His passing is a monumental loss to culture and humanity. Heartfelt condolences to his loved ones," he said.

Expressing his condolences to Zakir's family, Congress President Mallikarjun Kharge called him a "cultural ambassador who bridged borders and generations with his mesmerising rhythms".

"The Padma Vibhushan tabla maestro and percussionist, gloriously took forward the legacy of his father with exceptional performances and collaborations. His numerous national and international honours are a testament to this.”



Title: Allu Arjun vows cooperation in probe into woman's death at 'Pushpa 2' premiere after release from jail

The South Indian star was arrested over a stampede that killed a woman and injured a child at a screening of his latest blockbuster

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun has promised to cooperate in the probe into the stampede at the screening of his latest blockbuster 'Pushpa 2: The Rule' that killed a woman and seriously injured a child in Hyderabad following his release from jail.

He stressed that he is a law-abiding citizen and expressed his condolences to the victim's family after being freed on bail on Saturday, Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

"I want to thank all my fans. There is nothing to worry about. I would like to once again express my condolences to the family. It was an unfortunate incident. We are sorry for what happened," he said.

Allu Arjun was arrested on Friday in connection with the fatal incident at Hyberabad's Sandhya Theatre on Dec 4. Despite securing bail from a Telangana High Court, he had to spend the night behind bars as the jail authorities did not received a copy of the bail order until late last night.

The actor's counsel Ashok Reddy pointed the finger at the authorities for the delay in his release from jail. "The High Court order is very specific. Forthwith, the moment you [prison authorities] receive the order, [they should] release him. Despite the clear order, they have not released, they have to answer. This is an illegal detention. We will take legal steps," he is quoted as saying by NDTV.

Hours after Allu Arjun's arrest, the victim's husband said that he was "ready to withdraw the case".

"I was not aware of the arrest. Allu Arjun has nothing to do with the stampede in which my wife passed away," he said.

ALLU ARJUN THANKS SUPPORTERS

After an emotional reunion with his family, the actor expressed gratitude to everyone who supported him following his arrest, especially his fans. He reiterated that the stampede and subsequent death of the woman were "purely accidental and unintentional, with no connection to me".

He added that he had been visiting Sandhya Theatre for 20 years and had never witnessed such an incident before.

WHAT HAPPENED ON DEC 4?

A 35-year-old woman died and her eight-year-old son was hospitalised after a stampede broke out as thousands of fans gathered to catch a glimpse of Allu Arjun at the premiere of the blockbuster Pushpa 2.

WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?

In the aftermath of the incident, city police filed a case against the actor, his security team, and the theatre management based on a complaint lodged by the woman's family.

Reacting to the arrest, Rashmika Mandanna, Arjun's Pushpa 2 co-star, said she was "disheartened to see everything being blamed on a single individual".

Actor Varun Dhawan also weighed in, saying, "Safety protocols can't be solely the responsibility of an actor. We can inform people around us, but the incident was tragic, and I express my condolences. However, the blame can't rest on one person alone."



Title: Actor Allu Arjun arrested after woman's death in 'Pushpa 2' screening stampede

A stampede erupted at Hyderabad's Sandhya Theatre after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance during the film's premiere

Indian police have arrested Telugu superstar Allu Arjun in connection with a stampede that occurred outside a Hyderabad theatre and led to a woman's death.

The stampede broke out after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance at the theatre during a screening of his new film 'Pusha 2: The Rule', Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

Earlier, Hyderabad police filed a case naming the 41-year-old actor and others, including his security team members and the management of the Sandhya Theatre.

The victim was a 35-year-old woman. Her eight-year-old son was also injured in the stampede that erupted as the massive crowd jostled and shoved each other to catch a glimpse of Arjun upon his unannounced arrival.

"There was no intimation from the side of theatre management or actors' team... that they will be visiting the theatre..." Hyderabad Police Commissioner CV Anand had said.

He also noted that no separate entry, or exit, were provided, even though the theatre authorities knew they were coming.

Arjun arrived at the theatre at 9:30pm. He used the main entrance and spent 15-20 minutes outside. As news of his arrival spread, hundreds of people thronged to catch a glimpse of him.

His security team started pushing the crowd back and that aggravated the situation.

Revathi, the deceased woman, and her son felt "suffocated", police said. They were pulled out of the crowd by police who performed emergency first aid and shifted them to a nearby hospital.

Arjun, by this time, had gone into the theatre, but the crowd had continued building in the lobby.

The actor has since announced assistance of Rs 2.5 million for the woman's family, and also promised to take care of the medical expenses of the child, whose condition was critical.



Title: Another fan dies during screening of Allu Arjun's 'Pushpa-2' in India

A woman had previously been killed in a stampede while attending the Allu Arjun starrer's premiere in Hyderabad

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun's "Pushpa 2: The Rule" has been marred by the death of another viewer during a screening at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh.

Despite dominating the Indian box office since its release, the film has now been overshadowed by two deaths in theatres, sparking widespread concern.

According to The Hindustan Times, the latest incident occurred on Monday when the body of 35-year-old Harijana Madhannappa was found at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh' Rayadurgam.

Ravi Babu, an Andhra Pradesh police official, said that Madhannappa attended a 2:30pm screening on Monday.

He allegedly arrived intoxicated and continued drinking inside the theatre, according to Babu. Around 6pm, cleaning staff discovered him unresponsive, he said.

Police noted that Madhannappa, a father of four, had a history of alcohol abuse.

The exact cause of death has yet to be determined, but a case has been filed over the matter, Babu said.

Earlier, on Dec 4, 32-year-old Revathi was trampled to death while attending the premiere of "Pushpa 2" in Hyderabad. She was accompanied by her 9-year-old son Sritej, who fainted amid the chaos.

Following the incident, Revathi’s family filed a lawsuit against Allu Arjun, his security team, and the theatre authorities.

In response, Allu Arjun pledged Rs 2.5 million in compensation to Revathi’s family and assured that he would cover all medical expenses for her son Sritej.

Police have launched separate investigations into both incidents.

"Pushpa 2", directed by Sukumar, premiered on Dec 5. Starring Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna, the film has been a box office sensation, earning over Rs 6.45 billion in its first week of release.



Title: 'Hopefully it'll happen soon': Aamir hints at doing a film with Shah Rukh and Salman

“I was the person who brought this up and told Shah Rukh and Salman that it would be really sad if the three of us didn't do a film together."

Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, and Salman Khan -- the big 3 of Bollywood -- have been ruling the box office and shaping Hindi cinema for three decades. While Salman has shared the screen with both Aamir and Shah Rukh, the three Khans have never starred in a film together.

With past feuds, public spats and tensions now seemingly behind them, Aamir teased the tantalising prospect of a collaboration involving the iconic trio. A 'great script' is all that's missing, according to him.

In an interview with Indian news agency ANI, Aamir revealed that the idea of the three Khans working together on a project has been discussed, though the last conversation on the subject happened "about six months back".

Aamir, whose meticulous approach to filmmaking has earned him the moniker ‘Mr Perfectionist’, said, “I was the person who brought this up and told Shah Rukh and Salman that it would be really sad if the three of us didn't do a film together.”

"I think Salman and Shah Rukh were equally in agreement and were, 'Yes, we must do a film together. The three of us.' Hopefully, it will happen soon."

Asked about the roadblock to the dream collaboration, Aamir said, “It will need the right kind of story. So, we'll have to wait for the right script. We are all looking forward to it."

Last year, Shah Rukh and Salman appeared together in the blockbuster 'Pathaan'. While Aamir admitted he hasn’t watched the entire film, he revealed that the 'train track scene' featuring the duo left him in splits, the Hindustan Times reports.

“I have found the scene really funny. I have not seen that film but I have seen that scene. You get clips nowadays on Instagram and all that so I ended up seeing that scene it's quite funny,” he said.

"I think all the young actors must have got really upset and you can't even get too upset with Shah Rukh and Salman. What can you say?"



Title: Jay-Z lawyer says anonymous rape accuser must reveal her identity or drop lawsuit

The lawsuit alleges that Jay-Z and fellow rap mogul Sean 'Diddy' Combs raped a 13-year-old girl at a party in 2000

FILE PHOTO: Jay Z accepts the Dr Dre Global Impact Award during the 66th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US, February 4, 2024. REUTERS

A lawyer for Shawn Carter, the hip-hop mogul known as Jay-Z, has called for the woman who has accused the rapper of raping her when she was 13 to disclose her identity or have the lawsuit dismissed.

The lawsuit, initially filed in October, involved a woman identified only as "Jane Doe", who accused rapper Sean 'Diddy' Combs of raping her at a party following the MTV Video Music Awards in 2000. The complaint was amended on Dec 8 to allege that Jay-Z was also present and participated in the assault.

In a court filing on Monday, Jay-Z’s attorney Alex Spiro argued that the accuser failed to provide sufficient evidence to justify her anonymity, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

“Mr Carter deserves to know the identity of the person who is effectively accusing him — in sensationalised, publicity-hunting fashion — of criminal conduct, demanding massive financial compensation and tarnishing a reputation earned over decades,” Spiro wrote. “He has never been accused of, let alone engaged in, any sexual misconduct.”

Spiro also highlighted other sexual misconduct cases filed against Combs by the plaintiff’s attorney, Tony Buzbee. According to Spiro, these cases similarly lack grounds for proceeding under anonymity.

Jay-Z denied the allegations on social media and blasted the lawsuit, calling it part of a "blackmail attempt" by the plaintiff's lawyer, Reuters reports.

The lawsuit was originally filed in the Southern District of New York and at that time did not name Jay-Z as a defendant, though the amended lawsuit says that Jay-Z was identified as "Celebrity A" on the original complaint, according to Reuters.

Combs has denied all allegations against him, including this one, in October. He is currently in jail on federal sex trafficking charges, to which he has pleaded not guilty.

The lawsuit alleges that the unnamed girl was drugged and raped by both Jay-Z and Combs at a party hosted by Combs following the MTV Music Awards in 2000, which was held in New York.

Buzbee, the Texas lawyer representing the girl who filed the lawsuit, has filed at least 20 civil lawsuits against Combs accusing him of sexual misconduct.

In an email to Reuters, Buzbee said the Jay-Z lawsuit "speaks for itself".

"This is a very serious matter that will be litigated in court," Buzbee wrote.

Buzbee, in his amended lawsuit, says his legal firm had previously sent Jay-Z a letter seeking to mediate a settlement.

Jay-Z, the lawsuit says, responded to that letter by filing a lawsuit against Buzbee, and by "orchestrating a conspiracy of harassment" against Buzbee and other lawyers in his firm, which the lawyer said was an intimidation tactic meant to silence his client.

In a post on social media, Buzbee said the alleged rape victim he is representing "never demanded a penny" from Jay-Z, writing that "she only sought a confidential mediation."

Buzbee last week filed a lawsuit against law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, whose lawyers represent Combs and Jay-Z, accusing the firm's legal team of harassing his colleagues, his clients and his family.

Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan did not respond to requests for comment.



Title: Chris Evans set for MCU return in ‘Avengers: Doomsday’

The announcement has sparked speculation about whether Evans will reprise his role as Captain America, or the Human Torch

Chris Evans poses at the premiere of the holiday film "Red One" in New York City, US, Nov 11, 2024. REUTERS/Kent J Edwards

Chris Evans is set to make his return to the Marvel Cinematic Universe with Avengers: Doomsday, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The film, slated for a May 1, 2026 release, will be directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, Evans's long-time collaborators behind four of his MCU appearances.

Also joining the project is Robert Downey Jr, who will take on the role of Doctor Doom. The announcement has sparked speculation about whether Evans will reprise his role as Steve Rogers, also known as Captain America, or Johnny Storm, the Human Torch—a character he played in Fox’s Fantastic Four films and revisited in this year’s “Deadpool & Wolverine”.

Evans first stepped into the Marvel universe as Johnny Storm in the 2005 “Fantastic Four” and its 2007 sequel, “Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer”. However, he solidified his superhero legacy as Steve Rogers, debuting in “Captain America: The First Avenger” (2011) and going on to appear in a string of Marvel blockbusters, including “The Avengers” (2012), “Captain America: The Winter Soldier” (2014), and “Avengers: Endgame” (2019).

In “Endgame”, Rogers’ storyline culminated with the character passing his iconic shield to Sam Wilson, played by Anthony Mackie, and retiring to live a quiet life with his love, Peggy Carter.

While the actor’s emotional farewell tweet in October 2018 suggested finality, Evans hinted in a 2023 interview with GQ that a return was not entirely off the table.

“I wouldn’t want the black eye if it felt like a cash grab or if it didn’t live up to expectations or if it just felt like it wasn’t connected to that original thing,” he said.

Evans' potential return comes at a time when Marvel seeks to revitalise its cinematic slate amid evolving audience expectations. Fans eagerly await confirmation of his role and the broader implications for the MCU’s ongoing narrative experiment.



Title: 'Emilia Perez,' 'The Brutalist' lead Golden Globe film nominations

The Globe winners will be chosen by 334 entertainment journalists from 85 countries

Golden Globe statues are displayed, before the announcement of nominations for the 82nd Golden Globe Awards in Beverly Hills, California, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni

Musical thriller "Emilia Perez" and historical epic "The Brutalist" led the roster of films nominated on Monday for the 2025 Golden Globes, the Hollywood honors that kick off the movie awards season leading to the Oscars.

"Emilia Perez," released by Netflix, scored 10 nods and "The Brutalist," from independent distributor A24, earned seven.

Taking home a Globe can help movies in the race to the Academy Awards in March. Last year's Hollywood strikes scrambled this year's release schedule, and awards pundits say there is no clear frontrunner for best picture at the Oscars.

"Emilia Perez" stars Zoe Saldana as a lawyer who helps a drug cartel leader (Spanish actor Karla Sofía Gascón) fake his death and transition from a man to a woman. Selena Gomez co-stars as the cartel leader's wife. All three were nominated for by Globes voters for acting honors.

"The Brutalist" stars Adrien Brody in an epic tale of a Hungarian immigrant who flees the horrors of World War Two to rebuild his life in the United States.

Box office smash "Wicked," adapted from a long-running Broadway play about the witches in "The Wizard of Oz," landed four nominations.



Title: Global music stars head to India as young, affluent Indians pack concerts

Dua Lipa and Maroon 5 performed in India's financial capital Mumbai in the past seven days, while Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, Shawn Mendes and Green Day have concerts planned over the next three months

Girls hold posters outside the venue of the Dua Lipa concert in Mumbai, India November 30, 2024. REUTERS

Young, well-to-do Indians’ booming appetite for live entertainment is attracting global music stars as they seek out new audiences in the world’s most populous nation.

Dua Lipa and Maroon 5 performed in India's financial capital Mumbai in the past seven days, while Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, Shawn Mendes and Green Day have concerts planned over the next three months.

"We've been listening to these artists online for years so seeing them in real life is quite exciting," said Aseem Khan, a 23-year old from Bhopal in central India, as he queued with three friends to see British-Albanian pop star Dua Lipa.

About 20,000 people went to the Mumbai concert. Like Khan, many were in their early to mid 20s, and had travelled from across India to see the show. Two-thirds of the country's 1.4 billion population is under the age of 35.

Performances are a great way to spend "a weekend with multiple groups of friends as everyone is going to concerts these days," Khan said.

Affluent, globally connected Indians are driving the demand, according to executives at event management and ticketing firms.

"India is the second largest audio streaming market for most global artists around the world, translating very effectively to heightened demand on-ground for music concerts," said Anil Makhija, chief operating office for live entertainment and venues at BookMyShow, India's largest online ticketing platform.

The interest has changed how global stars are looking at India, said Adam Wilkes, president and chief executive for Asia Pacific at AEG, a live entertainment firm.

The video player is currently playing an ad. You can skip the ad in 5 sec with a mouse or keyboard

"What's been interesting the last few years is that it's gone from us saying, 'Hey, you ever think about India?' To them (artists) saying, 'Hey, I want to go to India,'" Wilkes said.

The concert boom has lifted other forms of live entertainment. There have been 27,000 live events, from music to comedy shows and theatre, in India so far this year to November, 35% more than in the same period last year, according to BookMyShow data.

Economists predict spillover effects into the wider economy as concert-goers splash out on transport, hotels, food and merchandise.

There will be a "significant boost to overall spending and consumption," Dipanwita Mazumdar and Jahnavi Prabhakar, economists at Bank of Baroda, wrote in a report on Dec 3.

At the current pace, they estimated concert-linked spending could total between 60 billion rupees ($708.5 million) and 80 billion rupees on an annualised basis over the next 12 months.

AEG's Wilkes says infrastructure improvements have also reduced the logistical challenges of staging shows in India, helped by the success of major sporting events such as cricket's IPL.

BEHIND THE BOOM

Affluent Indians' disposable income has been increasing even as growth in the world's fifth largest economy sees a slowdown and the middle class reins in spending on consumer goods.

While India's average per capita income remains low at close to $2,500 a year and there is significant inequality, the number of Indians earning more than 1 million Indian rupees ($11,807.77) a year has more than doubled to over 12 million over the last five financial years to March 2024, according to government data. India's financial year runs from April to March.

The cheapest tickets for Coldplay's upcoming shows were 2,500 rupees ($29.50) and the most expensive 35,000 rupees ($414). By comparison, prices for a Coldplay concert in South Korea were priced between $46.63 and $761.

Tickets for the initial two India shows sold out within minutes, prompting the band to add three more dates including two in the northwestern city of Ahmedabad.

Announcing the Ahmedabad performances would take place in a 130,000-seater stadium named after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Coldplay said it would be their "biggest ever show".

It was a sign of how the appetite for live events has spread beyond India's most prominent cities.

"Tier 2 and 3 cities are now the thriving hubs for out-of-home entertainment," said Makhija of BookMyShow.

Bryan Adams is set to perform in the northeastern city of Shillong next week while Ed Sheeran kicks off his 2025 tour of India from Pune, a city about 150 km (100 miles) southeast of Mumbai.

Stacked bar chart showing income distribution of individuals earning over 1 million rupees per year in India

Stacked bar chart showing income distribution of individuals earning over 1 million rupees per year in India

Aggregate revenue from India’s live entertainment market is expected to reach about $1.7 billion by 2026, growing at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 20% over the next three to five years, according to estimates from consulting firm Ernst and Young.

"If India can become 5-6 plus cities, like what Ed (Sheeran) is doing, then you're sort of in the same bucket as Canada, UK, Japan, Australia, China. Those are the top, top markets for live entertainment after the United States," said AEG's Wilkes.

Sheeran, who first played in India in 2015, has talked enthusiastically about the country and the joy of performing there.

"I really feel the love here, in India. People are so excited! I have a similar personality, so I resonate with that," he said in a media interview earlier this year.



Title: Taposh, wife among 5 sued over 'illegal takeover' of Gaan Bangla

A court sets Jan 1 for the submission of the investigation report in the case

A case has been filed over the alleged illegal takeover of 'Gaan Bangla', the country’s only music-based private television channel, against its Managing Director Kaushik Hossain Taposh, his wife and Chairperson Farzana Munni, and three others.

The case was initiated by Syed Shams Uddin Ahmed, according to Sub-Inspector Moktar, the general registration officer at Gulshan Police Station.

The other accused include Rabi Shankar Maitree, M Amanullah Khan (Chanchal Khan), Syed Nabil Ashraf, and four unidentified individuals.

SI Moktar said that the complainant submitted a petition to the court of Additional Metropolitan Magistrate Sanaullah in Dhaka on Nov 25. The judge accepted the petition and instructed the chief of Gulshan Police Station to register it as an official case.

The case was officially filed and on Dec 3, it was forwarded to court. After reviewing the complaint, Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate Sharifur Rahman set Jan 1 as the deadline for submitting the investigation report.

Investigating officer SI Harunor Rashid from Gulshan Police Station said, "The case is currently under investigation. Once the investigation is complete, we will submit the report to the court."

According to the case documents, Shams, along with Md Badruddoza Sagar, Bakhtiar Shikdar, and Rabi Shankar Maitree, had registered a company called Birds Eye Mass Media and Communication PLC on July 25, 2011, with the aim of opening a private satellite television channel.

The petitioner held 7,000 shares, while the others held 1,000 shares each, making up a total of 10,000 shares with a primary capital of Tk 10 million.

On Dec 22, 2011, Shams, who was the chairman and managing director of Birds Eye Mass Media, visited Amanullah Khan's home at the request of Amanullah and Rabi Shankar. Around 8pm that evening, Taposh, Farzana Munni, Nabil Ashraf, and several unidentified individuals arrived and demanded that Shams Uddin and Badruddoza Sagar sign documents, threatening them with firearms.

The plaintiff alleges that it became clear from their conversation that the suspects intended to seize Shams Uddin’s and Sagar’s 8,000 shares in Birds Eye Mass Media. Fearing for their lives, Shams Uddin and Sagar signed the documents.

The suspects also threatened to file cases against them or even kill them if they reported the incident or revealed any details. The suspects claimed to have the backing of influential figures from the previous government.

In fear of their safety, the plaintiffs filed a general diary with Mirpur Police Station on Dec 25, 2011, and subsequently left the country. After spending an extended period abroad, Shams Uddin returned to Bangladesh, confident that the rule of law had been restored. He then decided to file the case after consulting with all witnesses.

Rabi Shankar Maitree, one of the suspects in the case, denied the allegations, calling them “utterly fake” and “an extreme lie”. He claimed that similar cases had been filed with different plaintiffs’ names and dates, adding that Taposh and Munni had joined Gaan Bangla in July 2012. He also said that Shams Uddin had previously filed a case only against him and Amanullah Khan.

Expressing his disappointment, he said, "I lost my home country only for being one of the initiators of Gaan Bangla TV. My life in Bangladesh was ruined because of some rogues and barbarians. I am now living well in France. I don’t feel like talking about it, but one day, I’ll share everything in a live-stream on social media."

Attempts to reach Amanullah Khan, Syed Nabil Ashraf, and Farzana Munni for comment were unsuccessful. The key suspect, Taposh, is currently in jail in connection with the murder of a trader during the anti-discrimination movement in July.



Title: Director Jack Huston on battle behind first film 'Day of the Fight'

His first film stars Michael Pitt, Nicolette Robinson, Joe Pesci, Steve Buscemi and Ron Perlman and arrives in theaters on Friday

Cast member Jack Huston attends the Premiere of the film 'House of Gucci' at Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York City, New York, US, Nov 16, 2021. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz

Actor and director Jack Huston’s rich family history in Hollywood did not guarantee him an effortless process when directing and writing his first feature film, “Day of the Fight.”

"I can, without question, say this has been the hardest thing I've ever done in my life,” said Huston, grandson of late director John Huston and son of actor and assistant director Tony Huston.

“It's also still happening. The film hasn't come out yet. I mean, every day is still a fight. It's fight of the day not day of the fight. Every day is a new fight, a new hurdle,” he added.

“Day of the Fight,” distributed by Falling Forward Films, stars Michael Pitt, Nicolette Robinson, Joe Pesci, Steve Buscemi and Ron Perlman and arrives in theaters on Friday.

Huston’s great-grandfather Walter Huston was a leading man during Hollywood’s silent film era and won an Oscar for the film “The Treasure of the Sierra Madre,” directed by John Huston, who also won two Oscars for directing and writing that film.

Jack's aunt, Hollywood star Anjelica Huston, and his uncle, director and actor Danny Huston were also well-known in the industry.

Huston took some family advice when casting the lead Michael Pitt, who portrays Mike Flannigan, otherwise known by his boxer name Irish Mike, a terminally ill boxer trying to make amends in his life before he dies.

"I take a nice piece of advice I heard my grandfather say, which is ‘90 percent is casting,’" said Huston.

"I wrote every word for Michael Pitt. I knew that it was going to be Michael Pitt. I wouldn't have it any other way. I believe that when you cast an actor, you're giving them the role, that they own it now,” he added.

Huston and Pitt formed a bond while working together on the HBO crime drama “Boardwalk Empire.”

The film ends with a boxing fight in which Irish Mike knows he isn't going to survive.

"We had a day and a half on the boxing scene and in sort of relation to other boxing movies, that's a tenth, you know, probably a hundredth of what some other movies have had. But thank God I had Mike (Michael Pitt) as my sort of partner in crime,” the “American Hustle” actor said.

However, Pitt felt he let down the production after asking for a five-minute break during the fight scene.

“I was like, I'm tired," Pitt said. "I didn't condition myself well enough. And then someone told me how long we had been shooting. We'd been shooting for like eight hours. And I was like, oh, I'm fine."



Title: Horror film 'Nosferatu' gives a voice to its heroine, Lily-Rose Depp says

‘Nosferatu’ is set in a fictional Baltic city in the 1830s and follows young bride Ellen Hutter (Depp), who has been haunted by horrifying visions since childhood

Cast member Lily-Rose Depp attends the UK premiere of "Nosferatu" at Leicester Square in London, Britain, Dec 4, 2024. REUTERS/Mina Kim

Filmmaker Robert Eggers brings a classic folklore vampire back to the screen in "Nosferatu", a gothic horror film centred on the trajectory of its female heroine, played by Lily-Rose Depp.

Written and directed by Eggers, the movie is a reimagining of the 1922 silent film "Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horror", which in turn was inspired by Bram Stoker's 1897 novel "Dracula".

"Nosferatu" is set in a fictional Baltic city in the 1830s and follows young bride Ellen Hutter (Depp), who has been haunted by horrifying visions since childhood.

As her estate agent husband Thomas (Nicholas Hoult) prepares to set out on a business trip to Transylvania, Ellen's condition deteriorates. Thomas is promised that his meeting with the elusive client Count Orlok (Bill Skarsgard) will be richly reimbursed, allowing the young couple to start building their life together. Instead, the encounter triggers a terrifying chain of events.

"There was just so much for me to dive into," Depp said at the film's premiere in London on Wednesday. "To me it was about really depicting the emotional battle that she's going through, the internal battle that's going on within her, and to give a voice to this woman that at the time kind of wouldn't have had one. That was very special."

Eggers, 41, whose credits include "The Lighthouse" and "The Northman", said he had wanted to make the movie since seeing the original film at the age of nine.

"I just wanted to make a great sweeping gothic romance that was also legitimately a scary horror movie," he said, adding that the vampire he set out to depict was "the vampire from folklore that hundreds of years ago people actually thought was real".

For Skarsgard, whose other on-screen transformations include the clown Pennywise in the 2017 movie "It", said becoming Count Orlok required hours of work with prosthetics teams and vocal coaches.

"The face and the hands, which I wore when I had clothes on in the movie, was three hours. And the full body ones for where I'm not wearing clothes in the movie was six hours," the Swedish actor said.

"Nosferatu" also stars Aaron Taylor-Johnson and Emma Corrin as family friends who take Ellen in during Thomas' travels and Willem Dafoe in the role of Professor Albin Eberhart Von Franz.

"I think at its heart it stays true to the very original deep roots of the Nosferatu folklore. I think people who have a strong awareness of that history will really appreciate that," said Corrin.

"I also think it really embraces the love story in so many iterations. It's about sisterly love. It's about forbidden love and shame. It's about marital love. It's about loving yourself despite your dark sides."

"Nosferatu" begins its global cinematic rollout on Dec 25.



Title: Brazilian judge orders Adele song removed over plagiarism claim

Adele is accused of copying a song ‘Mulheres’, a national hit since the 1990s

Adele waves to singer Beyonce who is in the audience as she and co-song writer Greg Kurstin (not pictured) accept the Grammy for Song of the Year for "Hello" at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US , Feb 12, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson

A judge in Rio de Janeiro has ordered the global removal of a 2015 song by British singer Adele due to a plagiarism claim by a Brazilian musician, which Universal Music is fighting on appeal.

The ruling, made public on Monday, came in a case filed this year by Toninho Geraes, whose compositions were made famous by some of Brazil's most acclaimed samba singers.

Geraes accused Adele of copying his song "Mulheres", a national hit since the 1990s. His lawyers uploaded to YouTube a comparison of that song and Adele's "Million Years Ago".

"The ruling shows that the Brazilian justice system is strong and that injuries to Brazilian artists won't be ignored," said Fredimio Biasotto Trotta, a lawyer for Geraes.

The decision orders Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music to immediately cease "using, reproducing, editing, distributing, or commercializing" the song by any means on streaming or sharing platforms, without Geraes' consent. It set a fine of 50,000 reais ($8,080.94) if the companies fail to comply with the order.

The Berne Convention, an international treaty, orders other signatory countries, including the US, to comply with legal decisions regarding copyright, Trotta said.

Geraes' lawyers are now notifying streaming services, such as Spotify SPOT.N and Deezer, to withdraw the song in Brazil and globally. On Wednesday morning, the song was still widely available.

Universal appealed the decision on Tuesday, arguing there was no plagiarism, only an "accidental melodic similarity" due to the use of "musical clichés."

Both Adele and Geraes have contracts with Universal, but the Brazilian musician has been trying to terminate his contract with the company due to his plagiarism claim, his lawyer said.

"I felt very disrespected," Geraes told Reuters. He is asking the courts for compensation of more than $150,000.

Lawyers representing Universal Music declined to comment, and Sony Music did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

Geraes learned of the similarities between the two songs after a friend, who is also a composer, heard Adele's "Million Years Ago" at a party in 2021.



Title: Mayotte cyclone kills several hundred, maybe thousands, in worst storm in century

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital

A view shows damage caused by the Cyclone Chido, in Kaweni, Mayotte, France in this screengrab from a social media video, obtained by Reuters on December 14, 2024. @foulani2.00 via TikTok via REUTERS

Several hundred people and possibly even thousands may have been killed when the most powerful cyclone in nearly a century hit the French Indian Ocean archipelago of Mayotte, a senior local French official said on Sunday.

"I think there will certainly be several hundreds, maybe we will reach a thousand, even several thousands," prefect Francois-Xavier Bieuville said on local media channel Mayotte La 1ere.

Asked about the death toll from Cyclone Chido, the French interior ministry said "it will be difficult to account for all victims" and a figure could not be determined at this stage.

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital. It was the strongest storm in more than 90 years to hit the islands, the forecaster said.

"Honestly, what we are experiencing is a tragedy, you feel like you are in the aftermath of a nuclear war… I saw an entire neighborhood disappear," Mohamed Ishmael, a resident of Mayotte's capital Mamoudzou, told Reuters by phone.

Aerial footage shared by the French gendarmerie showed the wreckage of hundreds of makeshift houses strewn across the hills of one of Mayotte's islands, which have been a focal point for illegal immigration from nearby Comoros.

Local media images showed a mother pushing a newborn baby's crib along the flooded corridor of Mayotte's hospital. Capsized police boats lay onshore while coconut trees had crashed through the roofs of many buildings.

"My thoughts are with our compatriots in Mayotte, who have gone through the most horrific few hours, and who have, for some, lost everything, lost their lives," French President Emmanuel Macron said.

In the last few decades thousands of people have attempted to make the crossing from Comoros, off the coast of East Africa, to Mayotte, which has a higher standard of living and access to the French welfare system.

Over 100,000 undocumented migrants live in Mayotte, according to the French interior ministry.

It was difficult to ascertain the precise death toll after the cyclone, which also raised concerns about access to food, water and sanitation, authorities said.

"For the toll, it's going to be complicated, because Mayotte is a Muslim land where the dead are buried within 24 hours," a French interior ministry official said earlier.

Located nearly 8,000 km (5,000 miles) from Paris, Mayotte is significantly poorer than the rest of France and has grappled with gang violence and social unrest for decades.

More than three-quarters of the people in Mayotte live below the French poverty line. Tensions were stoked earlier this year by a water shortage.

An air bridge was being put in place from Reunion island, another French overseas territory on the other side of Madagascar, the government said.

The disaster is the first challenge faced by Prime Minister Francois Bayrou, days after he was named by Macron following the collapse of the previous government.

The cyclone went on to hit northern Mozambique on Sunday, but the full extent of the impact was not clear. Internet monitor NetBlocks said on X that heavy rain and winds had damaged power and telecommunications infrastructure.

In Comoros, two people were slightly injured, 24 displaced, and 21 homes were destroyed, authorities said.

France colonised Mayotte in 1843 and annexed the whole archipelago, including Comoros, in 1904.

In a 1974 referendum, 95% backed separation but 63% on Mayotte voted to stay French. Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli declared independence in 1975. Mayotte is still ruled from Paris.



Title: Monarch butterfly may gain threatened species status in US

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade

A monarch butterfly flutters in a field of marigolds, the traditional flower believed to guide the dead back to their loved ones, grown for use during Day of the Dead celebrations, in Boquillas, Mexico Oct 20, 2024. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril

The US Fish and Wildlife Service proposed listing the monarch butterfly as a threatened species on Tuesday, citing a significant decline in the iconic black and orange insects that has pushed them toward extinction.

WHY IT'S IMPORTANT

Monarch butterflies, known for migrating thousands of miles (km) across North America, have experienced a decades-long U.S. population decline due to habitat loss caused by human activities such as farming and urban development, widespread use of pesticides and climate change.

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade.

KEY QUOTE

"The iconic monarch butterfly is cherished across North America, captivating children and adults throughout its fascinating lifecycle," US FWS Director Martha Williams said in a statement.

"Despite its fragility, it is remarkably resilient, like many things in nature when we just give them a chance. Science shows that the monarch needs that chance, and this proposed listing invites and builds on unprecedented public participation in shaping monarch conservation efforts," she added

CONTEXT

Despite being recognised as needing federal protection under the Endangered Species Act four years ago, the monarch butterfly waited behind dozens of other species facing more immediate threats.

The ESA, signed into law in 1973, is credited with helping to save the bald eagle, California condor and numerous other animals and plants from extinction. ESA protection makes it illegal to kill or harm species classified as threatened or endangered without a special permit.

BY THE NUMBERS

The eastern migratory monarch population has declined by about 80% since the 1980s, while the western migratory population has dropped by more than 95%. The declines put the western populations at greater than 99% chance of extinction by 2080, according to the FWS.

The agency is proposing to designate 4,395 acres (1,780 hectares) in California as "critical habitat" for the butterflies. Federal agencies are prohibited from destroying or modifying areas with that designation.

WHAT'S NEXT

The public will have until March 12, 2025 to comment on the proposal to list the monarch butterfly. The service will then evaluate the comments and any additional information on the species to determine whether to list the monarch butterfly.



Title: Govt advises people with health issues to stay indoors as air pollution rises

Environment ministry urges mask use for those venturing outside amid alarming air quality

The air quality in Dhaka and its surrounding areas has fluctuated between "unhealthy" and "hazardous," prompting the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to advise individuals at risk to avoid going outside unless necessary.

The ministry recommended using masks for anyone needing to step outdoors in these conditions in a statement on Tuesday.

Citizens were also urged to monitor the environment department’s website for regular updates and take appropriate precautions.

Data from international air quality monitoring platform IQAir showed that Dhaka’s Air Quality Index, or AQI, stood at 193 at 6pm on Tuesday, categorised as "unhealthy."

At that time, Dhaka ranked second among cities with the worst air quality globally.

The AQI worsened after 10pm, remaining above 200—sometimes even exceeding 300—through to the following afternoon.

Air quality levels depend on the concentration of fine particulate matter, such as PM10 and PM2.5, measured in micrograms per cubic metre.

Other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-level ozone also contribute to the AQI.

An AQI score of 51-100 is considered "moderate" or "acceptable."

Scores between 101-150 are "unhealthy for sensitive groups."

Scores between 151-200 indicate "unhealthy" air.

Scores of 201-300 represent "very unhealthy" conditions.

Anything above 300 is deemed "hazardous" or "disastrous."

According to the environment department’s AQI data, Dhaka's air quality has mostly remained above 150 since Oct 12, except for 12 days when it dropped below this level.

During this 59-day period, the AQI exceeded 200 on 13 days.

Last Thursday, Dhaka's AQI hit 335.

To combat air pollution, the environment ministry has issued directives to halt the burning of solid waste, install covers and enclosures at construction sites, transport construction materials under covers, spray water at least twice daily around such sites, and bar the use of old or smoke-producing vehicles on the roads.

Brick kiln operators, factory owners, and the public have also been urged to comply with these measures.

The ministry emphasised that tackling air pollution requires collaborative efforts from the government and citizens.



Title: Extreme heat puts garment factory workers at risk, study shows

The study report urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves

Garment workers come out of a factory during the lunch break as factories remain open despite a countrywide lockdown, in Dhaka, Bangladesh, July 6, 2021. REUTERS

Workers in some of the world's biggest garment manufacturing hubs in Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Pakistan are increasingly exposed to extreme heat as climate change pushes temperatures up, a report found on Sunday, a problem multinational retailers and brands will have to help address.

New European Union regulations make retailers selling in the bloc, like Inditex, H&M and Nike, legally liable for conditions at their suppliers, putting pressure on them to help fund improvements to cool factories they source from.

In Dhaka, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh and Karachi, the number of days with "wet-bulb" temperatures - a measurement that accounts for air temperature as well as humidity - above 30.5 degrees Celsius jumped by 42% in 2020-2024 compared to 2005-2009, researchers at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute found.

Above that threshold, the International Labor Organisation recommends as much rest as work in any given hour to maintain safe core body temperature levels.

The report identified only three retailers - Nike, Levi's, and VF Corp - which specifically include protocols to protect workers from heat exhaustion in their supplier codes of conduct.

COMPANIES WARNED

"We've been talking to brands for ages now about this issue, and they're only now starting to turn their attention to it," Jason Judd, executive director at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute, told Reuters.

"If a brand or retailer knows that temperatures in a production area are excessively high or doing damage to worker health, then they're obligated under this new set of rules to do something about it," he added.

The EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive came into force in July and will start applying to large companies from mid-2027.

Fixes to cool factories could include better ventilation and water evaporative cooling systems, instead of energy-intensive and expensive air conditioning that would increase manufacturers' carbon emissions.

Some factory owners would likely be willing to make such investments themselves, given how heat stress significantly impacts productivity, Judd said, but the EU rules highlight brands' responsibility to address the issue too.

The report also urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves.

Extreme heat and flooding could erase $65 billion in apparel export earnings from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Pakistan and Vietnam by 2030, research from asset manager Schroders and the Global Labor Institute found last year.



Title: 2024 will be the hottest year on record, EU scientists say

The data comes two weeks after a $300bn deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient

This year will be the world's warmest since records began, with extraordinarily high temperatures expected to persist into at least the first few months of 2025, European Union scientists said on Monday.

The data from the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) comes two weeks after UN climate talks yielded a $300-billion deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient to cover the soaring cost of climate-related disasters.

C3S said data from January to November had confirmed 2024 is now certain to be the hottest year on record, and the first in which average global temperatures exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period.

The previous hottest year on record was 2023.

Extreme weather has swept around the world in 2024, with severe drought hitting Italy and South America, fatal floods in Nepal, Sudan and Europe, heatwaves in Mexico, Mali and Saudi Arabia that killed thousands, and disastrous cyclones in the US and the Philippines.

Scientific studies have confirmed the fingerprints of human-caused climate change on all of these disasters.

Last month ranked as the second-warmest November on record after November 2023.

"We're still in near-record-high territory for global temperatures, and that's likely to stay at least for the next few months," Copernicus climate researcher Julien Nicolas told Reuters.

Carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels are the main cause of climate change.

Cutting emissions to net zero - as many governments have pledged to eventually do - will stop global warming from getting worse. Yet despite these green pledges, global CO2 emissions are set to hit a record high this year.

Scientists are also monitoring whether the La Nina weather pattern - which involves the cooling of ocean surface temperatures - could form in 2025.

That could briefly cool global temperatures, though it would not halt the long-term underlying trend of warming caused by emissions. The world is currently in neutral conditions, after El Nino - La Nina's hotter counterpart - ended earlier this year.

"While 2025 might be slightly cooler than 2024, if a La Nina event develops, this does not mean temperatures will be 'safe' or 'normal'," said Friederike Otto, a senior lecturer at Imperial College London.

"We will still experience high temperatures, resulting in dangerous heatwaves, droughts, wildfires and tropical cyclones."

C3S' records go back to 1940, and are cross-checked with global temperature records going back to 1850.



Title: World Court to open climate change hearings

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant

People walk through water at a flooded area affected by rising sea levels and land subsidence in North Jakarta, Indonesia, Nov 20, 2024. REUTERS/Willy Kurniawan

The United Nations' top court on Monday starts hearings on the legal obligation of countries to fight climate change and the consequences for states of contributing to global warming, the outcome of which could influence litigation worldwide.

Vanuatu, one of the small island states that spearheaded the effort to get the International Court of Justice to give a so-called advisory opinion, will be the first of over a hundred states and international organisations to give their views in two weeks of proceedings starting at 10am (0900 GMT).

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant. Experts say the court's eventual opinion on climate change will likely be cited in climate change-driven lawsuits in courts from Europe to Latin America and beyond.

The hearings begin a week after developing nations denounced as woefully inadequate an agreement reached at the COP29 summit for countries to provide $300 billion in annual climate finance by 2035 to help poorer nations cope with climate change.

Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu's special envoy for climate change and the environment, said it was imperative fossil fuels be phased out and more money provided to poorer nations bearing the brunt of climate change, such as his Pacific island nation.

"We would like cumulative historical emissions that cause significant harm to the climate system to be declared unlawful," Regenvanu told Reuters.

Aside from small island states and numerous Western and developing countries, the court will also hear from the world's top two emitters of greenhouse gases, the United States and China. Oil producer group OPEC will also give its views.

The hearings will run until Dec 13. The court's opinion is expected to be delivered in 2025.



