Category: https://bdnews24.com/business

Title: Oil prices fall on demand concerns, strong dollar

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT

The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County, Texas, US November 24, 2019. REUTERS

Oil prices fell in early trading on Friday on worries about demand growth in 2025, especially in top crude importer China, putting global oil benchmarks on track to end the week down more than 2%.

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell 26 cents, or 0.26%, to $69.12 per barrel.

Chinese state-owned refiner Sinopec said in its annual energy outlook, released on Thursday, that China's imports could peak as soon as 2025 and the country's oil consumption would peak by 2027 as diesel and gasoline demand weaken.

The dollar's climb to a two-year high also weighed on oil prices, after the Federal Reserve flagged it would be cautious about cutting interest rates in 2025.

A stronger dollar makes oil more expensive for holders of other currencies, while a slower pace of rate cuts could dampen economic growth and trim oil demand.

In a move that could pare supply, G7 countries are considering ways to tighten the price cap on Russian oil, such as with an outright ban or by lowering the price threshold, Bloomberg reported on Thursday. Russia has evaded the $60 per barrel cap imposed in 2022 using its "shadow fleet" of ships, which the EU and Britain have targeted with further sanctions in recent days.



Title: FedEx to spin off its freight trucking business

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation

A driver of FedEx stands with packages near a delivery truck during Black Friday preparations in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, US, November 26, 2024. REUTERS

FedEx announced the much-anticipated spinoff of its freight trucking division on Thursday, as it restructures operations to focus on its core delivery business.

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation.

Analysts believe the spinoff could unlock up to $20 billion in shareholder value, while clearing the way for FedEx management to zero in on merging operations of its separate Express and Ground units to boost profits. They say FedEx Freight assets were not fully appreciated within FedEx and that spinning off the trucking business as a publicly-held entity will provide an opportunity to expand and improve its operations.

Freight is one of FedEx's most profitable businesses, said Edward Jones analyst Faisal Hersi. The company trades at a relative discount to its publicly held trucking rivals like XPO and Old Dominion, meaning that making it an independent company will create value for investors, he said.

"We are encouraged that the company listened to shareholder feedback and is pursuing this route," Stephens analyst Daniel Imbro said of the spinoff.

FedEx Freight is the largest US provider of less-than-truckload services, which involve carrying multiple shipments from different customers on a single truck; the shipments are then routed through a network of service centers where they get transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. The unit's revenue fell 11% to $2.17 billion during the fiscal second quarter ended Nov 30.

Executives said FedEx Freight lost some cost-conscious customers that it had picked up after the bankruptcy of rival Yellow Corp and that the business appeared to have bottomed during the most recent quarter.

The after-hours rally in FedEx shares came despite its warning that 2025 revenue could be held back by a stubbornly challenging environment, with demand for its fastest and most lucrative deliveries from business customers remaining weak.

As a result, Memphis-based FedEx lowered its profit outlook for the full year ending May 2025, calling for adjusted profit of $19 to $20 per share. In September, FedEx cut the top end of its full-year adjusted operating income to between $20 and $21 per share from its previous range of $20 to $22 per share.

FedEx second-quarter adjusted profit fell to $0.99 billion, or $4.05 per share, from $1.01 billion, or $3.99 per share, a year earlier. Nevertheless, the result from the latest quarter topped analysts' average call for earnings of $3.90 per share, according to LSEG.

FedEx Freight turned in lower-than-expected revenue and profit during the latest quarter, due to continued weakness in the US industrial segment that includes manufacturing, metals and chemicals. That was mostly offset by ongoing cost-cutting at the company, which is slashing overhead and working to improve efficiency.

The Express unit's adjusted results improved during the quarter, helped by expense reductions and more international export volume, FedEx said. That was partly offset by higher wage and lease rates, weak US package delivery demand and the expiration of the US Postal Service contract for air transportation services on Sept 29, 2024.

FedEx again warned that the loss of USPS, its largest customer, would create a $500 million headwind in the current fiscal year.

The company and rivals like United Parcel Service are in the throes of the US holiday shipping season, when daily volumes can double.

Thanksgiving fell later than normal this year, shortening the time the companies have to deliver gifts to shoppers and inventory to retailers.

December volumes so far are ahead of FedEx's forecasts and picked up right after Cyber Monday - the first work day after Thanksgiving, when many people make online purchases.

Carriers are still shouldered with excess capacity from the early COVID shipping boom, so experts say most holiday gifts should be delivered on time.



Title: Global central banks urge caution before Trump arrival

Uncertainty grows as Trump rejects funding bill

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, December 16, 2024. REUTERS

The imminent arrival of Donald Trump in the White House was already shaping global economic policy-making this week as the US Federal Reserve flagged fewer rate cuts and other leading central banks signalled caution over their rate paths.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday but accompanied the move with a message that the incoming Trump administration gave cause for caution - a sentiment echoed by its counterparts in London, Tokyo, Frankfurt and elsewhere.

As Fed officials dialed back projections for future easing in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and start to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said of higher estimates for both growth and inflation in 2025.

Powell's repeated urging of caution around further rate cuts triggered a slide in stock prices. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

As expected, the Bank of England kept its main interest rate unchanged at 4.75% on Thursday and said it needed to stick to its existing gradual approach to cutting rates.

"With the heightened uncertainty in the economy we can't commit to when or by how much we will cut rates in the coming year," BoE Governor Andrew Bailey said.

Earlier in Asia, the Bank of Japan kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"There's uncertainty over the policies of the incoming US administration, so we need to scrutinise the impact more carefully," BOJ Governor Kazuo Ueda told a press conference, adding that Trump trade and fiscal policies would have a huge impact on the global economy and financial markets.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment.

Norway's central bank held its policy interest rate unchanged at a 16-year high of 4.50% and highlighted the risk of a trade war between the United States and China.

"Higher tariffs will likely dampen global growth, but the implications for price prospects in Norway are uncertain," the bank said.

Sweden's central bank cut its key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.50% as expected, but said it now saw reasons to be more cautious about cutting rates in early 2025.

In central Europe, the Czech National Bank paused its year-long rate-cutting campaign as expected, with lingering inflation pressures, especially for services, keeping it cautious.

UPHEAVAL

The US economy was thrown into further uncertainty after Trump pressured fellow Republicans in Congress to reject a bill to keep the government funded past the deadline of midnight on Friday and demanded lawmakers raise the nation's debt ceiling.

In the past week, the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada had already lowered interest rates. Both are seen easing further in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said that the Fed had no legal authority to hold it and no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: Bangladesh ready to push startups, business initiatives for youth, says CA Yunus

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor says

The D-8 governments can convene candid, result-oriented conversations involving youth communities on startups, business and finance to carve out new platforms amongst them and Bangladesh is ready to take such initiatives forward, says Muhammad Yunus, chief advisor to the interim government.

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor said as he addressed the 11th Summit of the D-8 Countries in Egypt’s Cairo on Thursday.

The D-8 members met at a time when the world was witnessing unprecedented challenges, Yunus said.

“Yet, so many opportunities beckon us as well.”

He said the theme of the summit, focusing on youth and the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), aptly resonated with shared aspirations. He also congratulated President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt on his election.

Youth today are quickly embracing technology and innovation in everything, he said.

Often, they show uncanny imagination in tacking intractable climatic stress on-the-field, the chief advisor said.

He noted that agriculture and food were changing, economies were secured and wealth was created within societies with little outside inputs.

“I see how amazingly capable and competitive the SMEs are,” he said. “In the D-8 countries, collectively we possess enough wealth, even in private philanthropy, to stand by these scores of SMEs. With our modest support, we can shape a virtuous ‘cycle of good’, for them and our people. We need to let money flow to them, through de-risking finance, for instance.”

The D-8 countries have to re-invent ‘learning’ to make room for their boys and girls to become leaders of the economy, Yunus said.

The countries had great heritage, wisdom and accomplishments which could be blended and built using that foundation, he noted.

“We are yet to take fuller advantage of the digital revolution that has been with us for years. Now that AI is here, let us think if we can leapfrog and catch up with the disruptions, to the advantage of our entrepreneurial boys and girls,” Yunus said.

As a way forward, the chief advisor proposed two specific courses of action

Firstly, to build and deepen functional, impact-driven connections between the D-8 countries’ universities and equivalent knowledge institutions, particularly focused on preparing boys and girls for an entrepreneurial purpose other than its own sake.

“Our aim should be to generate knowledge output that can produce global secure business and industry from leaders of D8 countries in the fiercely competitive global marketplace, with our niche. If this asks to re-look at the D-8 trade and investment frameworks afresh, we should do so,” the chief advisor said.

Secondly, to think of a cooperative learning agenda that can complement the national undertakings now that basic AI-based tools and applications are accessible, he said.

For years, the D-8 countries tried to impart basic education and skills to millions in their countries through conventional in-person institutional architecture, which was often an increasingly daunting task.

“To reach ‘scale’, we tried through distance learning, for instance. We need to think deeper as to how to skill millions of young adults in a workplace where right attitudes – values – ethics matter as much as hard skills. And, then we also confront the challenge to re-skill many millions at different vocational streams, on a continuous basis,” the chief advisor said.



Title: Adani, under bribery scrutiny, pressed by Bangladesh to reopen power deal

The interim government accuses Adani Power of withholding tax benefits central to the deal

FILE PHOTO: The logo of the Adani Group is seen on the facade of one of its buildings on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, Apr 13, 2021. REUTERS/Amit Dave/File Photo/File Photo

Bangladesh's interim government has accused energy supplier Adani Power of breaching a multi-billion-dollar agreement by withholding tax benefits that a power plant central to the deal received from New Delhi, according to documents seen by Reuters.

In 2017, the Indian company controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani signed an agreement with Bangladesh to provide power from its coal-fired plant in eastern India. Dhaka has said it hopes to renegotiate the deal, which was awarded by then-Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina without a tender process and costs Bangladesh far more than its other coal power deals, according to Bangladesh power agency documents and letters between the two parties reviewed by Reuters, as well as interviews with six Bangladesh officials.

Dhaka has been behind on payments to Adani Power since supply started in July 2023. It owes several hundred million dollars for energy that has already been supplied, though the two sides dispute the exact size of the bill.

Bangladesh's de facto power minister Muhammad Fouzul Kabir Khan told Reuters the country now had enough domestic capacity to cope without the Adani supply, though not all domestic power generators were operational.

Nobel peace prize laureate Muhammad Yunus took power in August after a student-led revolution ousted Hasina, who critics accuse of stifling democracy and mismanaging the economy. She ran Bangladesh for most of the last two decades and was a close ally of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Reuters is reporting for the first time that the contract came with an additional implementation agreement that addressed the transfer of tax benefits. The news agency is also revealing details about Bangladesh's plan to reopen the 25-year deal, and that it hopes to use the fallout from U.S. prosecutors' November indictment of Adani and seven other executives for their alleged role in a $265 million bribery scheme to press for a resolution.

Adani Power has not been accused of wrongdoing in Bangladesh. A company spokesperson said in response to Reuters' questions that it had upheld all contractual obligations and had no indication Dhaka was reviewing the contract. The company did not answer questions about the tax benefits and other issues raised by Bangladesh.

Adani Group has called the US allegations "baseless."

TAX EXEMPTIONS

Adani Power's Godda plant runs off imported coal and was built to serve Bangladesh.

The company said the Bangladesh deal helped further Indian foreign policy objectives and Delhi in 2019 declared the plant part of a special economic zone. It enjoys incentives such as exemptions on income tax and other levies.

The power supplier was required to inform Bangladesh swiftly of changes in the plant's tax status and to pass on the "benefit of a tax exemption" from India's government, according to the contract and implementation agreement signed on Nov. 5, 2017 between Adani Power and the state-run Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB).

But Adani Power did not do so, according to letters sent by BPDB on Sept 17, 2024 and Oct 22, 2024 that urged it to remit the benefits.

The agreements and letters are not public but were seen by Reuters.

Two BPDB officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to talk to the media, said they did not receive responses.

BPDB estimates savings of roughly 0.35 cents per unit of power if the benefit was passed on, the officials said. The Godda plant supplied 8.16 billion units in the year to June 30, 2024, according to an undated Bangladesh government summary of power purchases seen by Reuters, suggesting potential savings of about $28.6 million.

Power minister Khan said the savings would be a key part of future discussions with Adani Power.

'NEGOTIATED HASTILY'

Bangladesh in November scrapped a 2010 law that allowed Hasina to award some energy deals without a competitive bidding process.

The absence of tenders is unusual, said Tim Buckley, director of Australia's Climate Energy Finance think-tank, adding that auctions ensure "the best price possible."

In September, Yunus's government appointed a panel of experts to examine major energy deals signed by Hasina. A Bangladesh court has separately ordered a probe of the Adani deal.

Another panel asked to study the economy said in a white paper submitted to Yunus on Dec 1 that the US charges against Adani meant Bangladesh should "scrutinise" the power deal, which it described as "negotiated hastily."

Hasina, who has not been seen in public since she fled to India, could not be reached. Her son and adviser Sajeeb Wazed told Reuters he was not aware of the Adani Power deal but that he was "sure there was no corruption."

"I can only assume the Indian government lobbied for this deal so it was made," he said in response to allegations of political interference.

Modi's office and other Indian officials did not respond to requests for comment.

HARDBALL

On Oct 31, Adani Power halved the power supply from Godda in response to the payment dispute with Bangladesh.

The company in a Jul 1 letter seen by Reuters also rejected a request from BPDB to extend a discount it had offered until May - resulting in savings of about $13 million for Bangladesh. It said it would not consider further discounts until payment was cleared.

Adani Power contends it is owed $900 million, while BPDB says arrears are about $650 million. Bangladesh suffers from a dollar shortage and BPBD officials told Reuters they haven't been able to obtain sufficient foreign currency for payment.

The halving of supply particularly angered Bangladesh, BPDB Chair Md Rezaul Karim said, because it came after Dhaka in October remitted $97 million to Adani Power - its highest monthly payment this year.

The dispute revolves around how power tariffs are calculated, with the 2017 agreement pricing off an average of two indices.

The unit cost of energy from Godda was 55% above the average of all Indian power sold to Dhaka, according to the summary of Bangladesh's power purchases.

Bangladesh is pressing for Adani Power to use other benchmarks that would lower the tariff after one of the indices was revised last year, said three BPDB sources.

Adani Power has rejected that, one of them said, adding the two sides were meeting soon.

The agreements stipulate that arbitration be carried out in Singapore, but Khan said Bangladesh's next move depended on the outcome of the court-ordered investigation.

"If it is proven that bribery or irregularities had happened, then we will have to follow the court order if any cancellation happens," he said.



Title: Stocks dive after Fed cuts rates, signals slower easing pace in 2025

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025

Traders work on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, US, December 10, 2024. REUTERS

US stocks plunged on Wednesday, with all three major indexes posting their biggest daily decline in months, after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point but disappointed some investors with projections that signaled a more cautious path of easing next year.

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025 given the solid labour market and the recent stall in lowering inflation.

"If you look at the changes to the statement of economic projection, they really had no choice," said Ellen Hazen, chief market strategist at FL Putnam Investment Management in Wellesley, Massachusetts.

"So as you look at all the changes that they made, it's very clear that the economy is running a lot hotter than their previous projection. And that has got to contribute to their desire to potentially pause."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1,123.03 points, or 2.58%, to 42,326.87, the S&P 500 lost 178.45 points, or 2.95%, to 5,872.16 and the Nasdaq Composite lost 716.37 points, or 3.56%, to 19,392.69.

The Dow suffered its 10th straight session of declines, its longest streak of daily losses since an 11-session skid in October 1974.

The Dow and S&P saw their biggest one-day percentage decline since Aug. 5 and the Nasdaq saw its biggest daily decline since July 24.

The small cap Russell 2000 dropped 4.4%, its biggest drop since June 16, 2022. Small cap stocks are seen as more likely to benefit from a lower interest rate environment.

Despite the declines, the Dow is up nearly 12.3% on the year, while the S&P has rallied about 23% and the Nasdaq has shot up more than 29%, lifted largely by technology companies and enthusiasm around artificial intelligence, along with prospects of a lower rate environment and more recently, the hope of deregulation policies from President-elect Donald Trump's incoming administration.

However, investors are also wary that some of Trump's expected policies, such as tariffs, could rekindle higher inflation.

The CBOE Volatility Index - an options-based gauge of investor expectations for near-term stock market gyrations - jumped 11.75 points to close at a four-month high of 27.62.

US Treasury yields moved higher after the statement as the benchmark US 10-year note touched its highest level since May 31 at 4.518%.

"You've got the 10-year creeping back up, around that 4.5% and particularly the 5% level that's been a real problem for equity markets," said Ross Mayfield, investment strategist at Baird in Louisville, Kentucky.

"Probably the most obvious headwind or point of contention for markets in the first quarter of next year is whether the markets interpret the policies on the table as inflationary and, or, pro-growth, both things are embedded in the 10-year."

Markets were pricing in expectations the Fed will hold rates steady at its January meeting, while factoring in about 33 basis points (bps) in cuts for 2025, down from 49 bps immediately after the Fed statement.

Higher interest rates are usually seen as a drag to the equity market, boosting the appeal of less risky assets while crimping the ability of companies to grow earnings.

Each of the 11 major S&P 500 sectors were lower, with real estate, down 4%, and consumer discretionary leading declines, off 4.7%.

Cryptocurrency related stocks fell, with losses accelerating after Powell said the central bank is not allowed to own bitcoin and is not seeking a law change in order to do so. There has been speculation Trump's incoming administration might seek to build a government owned stock of the asset. Microstrategy tumbled 9.5%, MARA Holdings plunged 12.2% and Riot Platforms fell 14.5%.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 9.489-to-1 ratio on the NYSE, and by a 5.46-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.

The S&P 500 posted six new 52-week highs and 27 new lows, while the Nasdaq Composite recorded 80 new highs and 264 new lows.

Volume on US exchanges was 18.59 billion shares, compared with the 14.36 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days.



Title: Business influence on soybean oil prices leaves finance advisor helpless

He calls market conditions complex and difficult to control

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has come to realise just how powerful businesses are as he deals with the soybean oil market.

Referring to the insufficient supply of soybean oil in the market despite price increases, he said the market realities are "quite complex" and breaking them is "quite challenging".

A week ago, the price of soybean oil was raised by Tk 8 per litre, bringing the price to Tk 175.

However, there have been continued reports of insufficient supply despite the price increase.

"The problem is that there's a gap between our price determination and the actual market reality. For instance, when the price went up by Tk 8, there was plenty of supply the following day. After the price hike, businesses have expectations that further increases will follow," the advisor told journalists after a meeting of the Advisors Council Committee on Government Purchase at the Secretariat on Wednesday.

He also pointed out the limitations of market monitoring, saying it is impractical for the National Consumer Rights Protection Directorate to monitor every location, citing his visit to Pabna where the situation remained the same.

Salehuddin stressed that if the public becomes more aware and reports complaints, proper action will be taken.

"If anyone charges excessively, consumers should speak out," he said.

Salehuddin added, "People here have a higher tolerance and just buy the goods. But consumers abroad are much more aware and protest when prices rise. I am not asking for protests, but at least for everyone to speak up.”

When asked about the strength of business syndicates, the finance advisor said: “Definitely. It’s not just syndicates; the businesses involved are very powerful. There are large traders, medium-sized ones, and those who import directly and supply goods, as well as those who act as agents, only supplying goods or issuing DOs [Delivery Orders].”

“It’s a complex system, and breaking it is difficult.”

When asked why raids were limited to the retail sector and not extended to wholesalers and mills, the finance advisor explained: “Raiding everywhere at once could worsen the artificial crisis. We aim to balance the market by ensuring businesses can operate while preventing excessive profiteering. At the same time, we want producers to receive fair prices for their costs. Achieving this balance will take time.”



Title: Eastern Bank honours 30 partners at Digital Excellence Summit 2024

The event celebrates the contributions of key partners to the bank’s digital journey

Eastern Bank hounors 30 partners at EBL Digital Excellence Summit 2024 held at BICC on 17 Dec 17, 2024.

Eastern Bank Limited, or EBL, has recognised 30 partner companies for their remarkable contributions to the development of its digital services and solutions.

The awards were presented under three categories—Partners in Progress, Excellence in Business, and Enablers of Excellence—during a gala ceremony at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre, or BICC, in Dhaka on Dec 17.

The ceremony brought together key partners, merchants, and industry leaders to celebrate collective achievements in digital transformation.

The bank’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Ali Reza Iftekhar highlighted the importance of collaboration, saying: “This award reflects our strong commitment to collaboration, innovation, and excellence.”

“Together, we are setting new standards in the digital financial services landscape and paving the way for a more inclusive and prosperous future for Bangladesh.”

M Khorshed Anowar, deputy managing director and head of Retail and SME Banking at EBL, delivered the keynote speech on "Current Scenario of Digital Inclusion in Bangladesh and Future Prospects of Digital Payments."

Ahsan Ullah Chowdhury, head of Digital Financial Services at EBL, offered a vote of thanks.



Title: India's gold imports to plunge in December after record November

Lower imports by India, the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, could cap a rally in global prices that hit a record high in October

Gold rings are seen at a jewellery shop in the old quarters of Delhi, India, May 24, 2023. REUTERS

India's gold imports are poised for a sharp slowdown in December following record purchases in November, in the absence of any major festival and as rebounding prices prompt buyers to delay purchases, trade and government officials said.

Lower imports by India, the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, could cap a rally in global prices that hit a record high in October. The drop in imports could also help India narrow its trade deficit and support the ailing rupee.

"Last month, imports shot up thanks to strong demand for investment and jewellery," Prithviraj Kothari, president of the India Bullion and Jewellers Association (IBJA), said.

"But now, things are cooling off, and imports are slowing down. We might see a drop of over 50% in December."

Gold imports more than doubled in November compared to the previous month, reaching a record $14.8 billion, which widened the trade deficit to a record level and pushed the rupee to an all-time low.

Many potential buyers had been waiting for gold prices to drop and rushed to make purchases as soon as prices corrected in November, said a Mumbai-based dealer with a private bullion importing bank.

Local prices declined to 73,300 rupees ($863) per 10 grams in mid-November after hitting a record high of 79,775 rupees in October.

Prices have rebounded in December, which is discouraging buyers and will likely lead to imports falling sharply to around $5 billion, the dealer said.

"So far this month, we have received fewer gold consignments for clearing compared to last month," said a customs official, who declined to be named.

Weak demand prompted Indian dealers this week to offer a discount of up to $8 an ounce over official domestic prices – inclusive of 6% import and 3% sales levies. Last month, they were charging a premium of up to $16.

In November, investment demand was robust as bullion was offering better returns than the stock market, IBJA's Kothari said.

India's NSE Nifty 50 share index fell to 23,263.15 points in November, down 11% from a record high hit on Sept 27.

Gold imports in November were also driven by festive season demand, as jewellers aimed to replenish stocks following the festivals of Dussehra and Diwali, said Amit Modak, chief executive of PN Gadgil & Sons, a jeweller.

……

Caption:

Keywords:



Title: Adani deal under bribery scrutiny was approved against officials' advice

US prosecutors allege that defendants bribed Andhra official $228 million for Adani deal

Rotors of power-generating windmill turbines of Adani Green Energy are kept for transportation in a stockyard at Ahmedabad-Narayan Sarovar state highway near Nakhatrana village in the western state of Gujarat, India, Nov 29, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

The approach from the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) on Sept 15, 2021 came out of the blue. The federal agency, tasked with developing the solar sector, wanted to know if the southeastern state of Andhra Pradesh would like to sign India's largest renewables contract.

Two years earlier, Andhra Pradesh's energy regulator had said in a 10-year forecast the state had no short-term need for solar power, and should focus on other renewables that could provide 24-hour energy.

But just a day after SECI approached the state government, the 26-member state cabinet led by Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy gave the deal its preliminary approval, according to cabinet records seen by Reuters.

While SECI's Sept 15 letter did not name the energy supplier, it was publicly known at the time that the federal agency had only contracted with two suppliers, the larger of which was controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani, according to past statements from the two companies.

By Nov 11, the state government had secured the nod from the energy regulator. On Dec 1, state authorities signed a procurement agreement with SECI for the deal, which could eventually be worth over $490 million annually.

As much as 97 percent of that will go to Adani Green, the renewables unit of the billionaire's Adani Group conglomerate, according to documents related to the agreement, reviewed by Reuters.

The news agency spoke to a former state power regulator and an energy legal expert who said the 57 days between SECI's approach to the state government and regulatory approval from the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) for the 7,000 megawatt deal was unusually fast, although timeframes for such deals can vary.

The solar deal is now under scrutiny by US prosecutors, who indicted Adani and seven other executives in November for alleged involvement in a bribery and securities fraud scheme involving several Indian states and one territory.

US prosecutors allege that $228 million was offered to an unnamed Andhra Pradesh official by the defendants to direct the state's electricity distribution companies to purchase the solar power supplied to SECI by Adani Green.

Reuters reviewed 19 state government documents, many of them previously unreported, and interviewed more than two dozen state and federal officials about the deal, as well as independent energy and legal professionals. Most of the people spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter.

Together they provide a picture of how political leaders overruled advice from finance and energy officials in order to approve the massive Adani deal. Some officials have publicly described the contract as likely to strain the state's coffers, potentially leaving taxpayers on the hook for thousands of megawatts of energy that Andhra Pradesh does not need.

Adani Green did not respond to Reuters' questions about the alleged corruption nor the speed of the approval process. Adani Group has previously called the allegations "baseless."

SECI told Reuters in a statement it was up to states and their regulators to decide how much power to purchase. It declined to answer other questions.

The office of Reddy, who was not named in the US indictment and lost power in an election this year, referred Reuters to a Nov 28 statement in which he denied being bribed and justified the deal on grounds it provided free power to farmers. Reddy's office declined to answer other questions.

APERC, which regulates the state's power sector and was responsible for due diligence on the deal, did not respond to repeated requests for comment on its processes and the US allegations.

The current state government also did not respond to requests for comment.

DUE DILIGENCE

For most of Sept 15, 2021 then-energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy was unaware of any potential solar deal, he told Reuters.

But late that night, he received a call from a person in his office, whom he did not identify, about a proposal that required his signature for discussion in cabinet the next day, said Srinivasa Reddy, who joined a rival party this year.

"Never before" had he been so rushed to approve files, he said, and he was not given "details or time to study the matter."

Srinivasa Reddy said he signed off after being assured by a senior official at his department, whom he also did not identify, that the contracting party was SECI. He said he had "no idea the supplier was Adani."

Srikant Nagulapalli, who declined to comment, was then the top civil servant in Srinivasa Reddy's department. Reuters could not establish if Reddy consulted him or if he provided assurances about the deal.

The next day, cabinet approved the deal "in principle," according to minutes from the cabinet meeting, allowing the regulatory process to be fast-tracked.

On Oct 21, the Andhra Pradesh Power Coordination Committee (APPCC) - which had been tasked with studying the deal after the preliminary approval - filed a report recommending the deal.

The committee was established by the state government to coordinate between state-owned distribution companies; its members include the state's top energy official and company executives.

Seven days later, the Andhra Pradesh cabinet officially committed to procuring 7,000 megawatts from SECI.

In doing so, it overrode advice from officials at the finance and energy departments that the contract did not represent good value.

On Oct 28 - the same day as the cabinet meeting that approved the deal but before the greenlight was given - the finance department made a submission to the cabinet stating there was an industry trend of falling solar prices and that future agreements would likely be cheaper, according to cabinet minutes.

It said Andhra Pradesh had leverage because the government was the buyer, offering the supplier security that a default would be unlikely.

The treasury also questioned the duration of the 25-year contract, especially since supply was scheduled to start only in 2024, according to the minutes. The treasury said it believed costs could continue to fall in the period between agreeing the contract and power being supplied.

The energy department endorsed the treasury's advice.

The records of the cabinet deliberations do not document any discussion about the finance and energy departments' concerns beyond a statement in the minutes that the cabinet was "duly overruling the finance remark."

Andhra Pradesh will pay 2.49 rupees per kilowatt-hour when the solar power comes online, according to the agreement.

An Adani Green spokesperson told Reuters that supply would be delayed beyond 2024, citing delays in "grid availability."

However, an analysis released by the office of Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu - who ousted Reddy's government in elections this year - found the state would likely have to pay more, because the contract did not account for certain taxes and duties that are typically included in such calculations.

A state official familiar with the matter said Andhra Pradesh is likely to pay as much as 23 percent over the price it agreed in the Adani contract once the taxes and duties are included.

Andhra Pradesh is now seeking to suspend the deal due to the indictment of Gautam Adani. A decision could come by year-end, an official told Reuters.

If the Adani deal goes ahead, the state treasury will be directly on the hook for solar bills running hundreds of millions of dollars annually, according to Reuters' review of contract documents. Annual payments to Adani once the power supply is fully operational will be roughly equal to state spending on social security and nutrition programmes for the previous fiscal year.



Title: India's economy ends 2024 with solid momentum as business growth hits four-month high

Asia's third-largest economy grew a softer 5.4% last quarter, but easing inflation is expected to spur demand among private sector firms

Employees assemble an electric transformer inside a manufacturing unit of Inductotherm (India) Private Limited at Sanand GIDC (Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation), on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, March 28, 2024. REUTERS

India's private sector output grew at the fastest pace in four months, preliminary readings from a survey showed, helping the economy end 2024 on a positive note underpinned by sturdier demand in services and manufacturing and record jobs growth.

Asia's third-largest economy grew a softer 5.4% last quarter, but easing inflation is expected to spur demand among private sector firms, improving the outlook for next year.

Monday's HSBC's December flash India Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), compiled by S&P Global, rose to 60.7 this month - matching August's reading - after dropping to 58.6 in November.

The 50-level separates growth from contraction and the business activity index has been above 60 in all but three months this year. Such strength hasn't been seen since 2008 when the global financial crisis hit, suggesting strong private sector expansion.

"The small rise in the headline manufacturing PMI in December was mainly driven by gains in current production, new orders and employment," said Ines Lam, economist at HSBC.

"The expansion in new domestic orders quickened, suggesting a pick-up in growth momentum in the economy."

A stronger rise in demand was mainly reflected in the PMI for the dominant services sector, which rose to a four-month high of 60.8 from 58.4 in November, while the index for manufacturing was 57.4, up from 56.5 last month.

Service providers led the rise in sales with the new business sub-index touching the highest since January. Improving international demand for goods and services also boosted sales with the former recording a faster increase than the latter.

That improved the business outlook for 2025 and overall optimism rose to its highest since September last year and prompted companies to ramp up hiring additional staff at the fastest pace since the survey began in late 2005.

Both manufacturing and services posted a new peak for employment generation.

Inflationary pressures eased in December after two consecutive months of steeper rises. However, firms again increased selling prices albeit at a slower pace than November's near 12-year high.

That will provide some relief to newly appointed Reserve Bank of India Governor Sanjay Malhotra after consumer inflation came in lower than expected at 5.48% last month with economists betting on a rate cut in February 2025, a Reuters poll found.



Title: Trump transition team plans sweeping rollback of Biden EV, emissions policies

The proposals aim to boost US production and redirect funds to national defence

EVgo fast electric vehicle chargers are shown charging a Chevy Bolt in Encintas, California, US,October 17, 2023. REUTERS

Incoming US President Donald Trump’s transition team is recommending sweeping changes to cut off support for electric vehicles and charging stations and to strengthen measures blocking cars, components and battery materials from China, according to a document seen by Reuters.

The recommendations, which have not been previously reported, come as the U.S. electric-vehicle transition stalls and China’s heavily subsidized EV industry continues to surge, in part because of its superior battery supply chain. On the campaign trail, Trump vowed to ease regulations on fossil-fuel cars and roll back what he called President Joe Biden’s EV mandate.

The transition team also recommends imposing tariffs on all battery materials globally, a bid to boost U.S. production, and then negotiating individual exemptions with allies, the document shows.

Taken together, the recommendations are a stark departure from Biden administration policy, which sought to balance encouraging a domestic battery supply chain, separate from China, with a rapid EV transition. The transition-team plan would redirect money now flowing to building charging stations and making EVs affordable into national-defence priorities, including securing China-free supplies of batteries and the critical minerals to build them.

The proposals came from a Trump transition team charged with crafting a strategy for swift implementation of new automotive policies. The team also calls for eliminating the Biden administration’s $7,500 tax credit for consumer EV purchases, a plan that Reuters first reported last month. The policies could strike a blow to US EV sales and production at a time when many legacy automakers, including General Motors and Hyundai, have recently introduced a wider array of electric offerings to the US market.

Cutting government EV support could also hurt sales of Elon Musk’s Tesla, the dominant US EV seller. But Musk, who spent more than a quarter-billion dollars helping to elect Trump, has said that losing subsidies would hurt rivals more than Tesla.

The transition team calls for clawing back whatever funds remain from Biden’s $7.5 billion plan to build charging stations and shifting the money to battery-minerals processing and the "national defence supply chain and critical infrastructure.”

While batteries, minerals and other EV components are “critical to defense production,” electric vehicles “and charging stations are not,” the document says.

The Defense Department in recent years has highlighted US strategic vulnerabilities because of China’s dominance of the mining and refining of critical minerals, including graphite and lithium needed for batteries, and rare-earth metals used in both EV motors and military aircraft.

A 2021 government report said the US military faces “escalating power requirements” for weapons and communication equipment, among other technologies. “Assured sources of critical minerals and materials” are “critical to US national security,” the report found.

Trump transition spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said voters gave Trump a mandate to deliver on campaign promises, including stopping government attacks on gas-powered cars.

"When he takes office, President Trump will support the auto industry, allowing space for both gas-powered cars and electric vehicles," Leavitt said in a statement.

ALLOWING MORE TAILPIPE POLLUTION

Automakers globally have been shifting toward electric vehicles in part to comply with stricter government limits on climate-damaging tailpipe pollution.

But the transition team recommendations would allow automakers to produce more gas-powered vehicles by rolling back emissions and fuel-economy standards championed by the Biden administration. The transition team proposes shifting those regulations back to 2019 levels, which would allow an average of about 25% more emissions per vehicle mile than the current 2025 limits and average fuel economy to be about 15% lower.

The proposal also recommends blocking California from setting its own, stricter vehicle-emissions standards, which more than a dozen other states have adopted. Trump barred California from setting tougher requirements during his first term, a policy that Biden reversed.

California has asked the US Environmental Protection Agency for another waiver to incorporate a stronger set of requirements beginning in 2026, which would eventually require all vehicles to be electric, plug-in hybrid or hydrogen-powered by 2035. The Biden administration’s EPA has not approved California’s request.

Many of the transition-team proposals appear aimed at encouraging domestic battery production, primarily for defense-related interests. Others appear aimed at protecting automakers, even those producing EVs, in the United States.

The proposals include:

– Instituting tariffs on “EV supply chain” imports including batteries, critical minerals and charging components. The proposal viewed by Reuters said the administration should use Section 232 tariffs, which target national security threats, to limit imports of such products.

The Biden administration recently increased tariffs on Chinese imports of several mentioned in the Trump-transition document, including lithium-ion batteries, graphite and “permanent magnets” used in EV motors and military applications. Those tariffs were issued on economic rather than security grounds.

– Waiving environmental reviews to speed up “federally funded EV infrastructure projects,” including battery recycling and production, charging stations and critical mineral manufacturing.

– Expanding export restrictions on EV battery technology to adversarial nations.

– Providing support for exports of US-made EV batteries through the Export-Import Bank of the United States.

– Using tariffs as a “negotiating tool” to open foreign markets to US auto exports, including EVs.

– Eliminating requirements that federal agencies purchase EVs. A Biden policy requires all federal acquisitions of cars and smaller trucks to be zero-emission vehicles by the end of 2027.

– Ending DOD programmes aimed at purchasing or developing electric military vehicles.



Title: TikTok turns to US Supreme Court in last-ditch bid to avert ban

The emergency request is the final legal effort intended to block the law intended to force Chinese company ByteDance to divest from the app by Jan 19

TikTok made a last-ditch effort on Monday to continue operating in the United States, asking the Supreme Court to temporarily block a law intended to force ByteDance, its China-based parent company, to divest the short-video app by Jan. 19 or face a ban.

TikTok and ByteDance filed an emergency request to the justices for an injunction to halt the looming ban on the social media app used by about 170 million Americans while they appeal a lower court's ruling that upheld the law. A group of US users of the app filed a similar request on Monday as well.

Congress passed the law in April. The Justice Department has said that as a Chinese company, TikTok poses "a national-security threat of immense depth and scale" because of its access to vast amounts of data on American users, from locations to private messages, and its ability to secretly manipulate content that Americans view on the app.

The US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Washington on Dec. 6 rejected TikTok's arguments that the law violates free speech protections under the US Constitution's First Amendment.

In their filing to the Supreme Court, TikTok and ByteDance said that "if Americans, duly informed of the alleged risks of 'covert' content manipulation, choose to continue viewing content on TikTok with their eyes wide open, the First Amendment entrusts them with making that choice, free from the government's censorship."

"And if the DC Circuit's contrary holding stands, then Congress will have free rein to ban any American from speaking simply by identifying some risk that the speech is influenced by a foreign entity," they added.

The companies said that being shuttered for even one month would cause TikTok to lose about a third of its US users and undermine its ability to attract advertisers and recruit content creators and employee talent.

Calling itself one of the "most important speech platforms" used in the United States, TikTok has said that there is no imminent threat to US national security and that delaying enforcement of the law would allow the Supreme Court to consider the legality of the ban, and the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump to evaluate the law as well.

Trump, who unsuccessfully tried to ban TikTok during his first term in 2020, has reversed his stance and promised during the presidential race this year that he would try to save TikTok. Trump takes office on Jan. 20, the day after the TikTok deadline under the law.

The law would "shutter one of America's most popular speech platforms the day before a presidential inauguration," the companies said in their filing. "A federal law singling out and banning a speech platform used by half of Americans is extraordinary."

Asked on Monday at a press conference what he would do to stop a ban on TikTok, Trump said that he has "a warm spot in my heart for TikTok" and that he would "take a look" at the matter.

Trump was meeting with TikTok CEO Shou Zi Chew in Florida on Monday, a source familiar with the plans told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity. TikTok did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the meeting.

The companies asked the Supreme Court to issue a decision on its request by Jan. 6 to allow, in the event it is rejected, for the "complex task of shutting down TikTok" in the United States and to coordinate with service providers by the deadline set under the law.

The dispute comes amid growing trade tensions between China and the United States, the world's two biggest economies.

'RIGOROUS SCRUTINY'

TikTok has denied that it has or ever would share US user data, accusing US lawmakers of advancing speculative concerns.

TikTok spokesperson Michael Hughes said after the filing that "we are asking the court to do what it has traditionally done in free speech cases: apply the most rigorous scrutiny to speech bans and conclude that it violates the First Amendment."

In its ruling, the DC Circuit wrote, "The First Amendment exists to protect free speech in the United States. Here the government acted solely to protect that freedom from a foreign adversary nation and to limit that adversary's ability to gather data on people in the United States."

The law would bar providing certain services to TikTok and other foreign adversary-controlled apps including offering it through app stores such as Apple and Alphabet's Google, effectively preventing its continued US use unless ByteDance divests TikTok by the deadline.

A ban could open the door to a future US crackdown on other foreign-owned apps. In 2020, Trump tried to ban WeChat, owned by Chinese company Tencent, but was blocked by the courts.



Title: Bangladesh ready to push startups, business initiatives for youth, says CA Yunus

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor says

The D-8 governments can convene candid, result-oriented conversations involving youth communities on startups, business and finance to carve out new platforms amongst them and Bangladesh is ready to take such initiatives forward, says Muhammad Yunus, chief advisor to the interim government.

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor said as he addressed the 11th Summit of the D-8 Countries in Egypt’s Cairo on Thursday.

The D-8 members met at a time when the world was witnessing unprecedented challenges, Yunus said.

“Yet, so many opportunities beckon us as well.”

He said the theme of the summit, focusing on youth and the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), aptly resonated with shared aspirations. He also congratulated President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt on his election.

Youth today are quickly embracing technology and innovation in everything, he said.

Often, they show uncanny imagination in tacking intractable climatic stress on-the-field, the chief advisor said.

He noted that agriculture and food were changing, economies were secured and wealth was created within societies with little outside inputs.

“I see how amazingly capable and competitive the SMEs are,” he said. “In the D-8 countries, collectively we possess enough wealth, even in private philanthropy, to stand by these scores of SMEs. With our modest support, we can shape a virtuous ‘cycle of good’, for them and our people. We need to let money flow to them, through de-risking finance, for instance.”

The D-8 countries have to re-invent ‘learning’ to make room for their boys and girls to become leaders of the economy, Yunus said.

The countries had great heritage, wisdom and accomplishments which could be blended and built using that foundation, he noted.

“We are yet to take fuller advantage of the digital revolution that has been with us for years. Now that AI is here, let us think if we can leapfrog and catch up with the disruptions, to the advantage of our entrepreneurial boys and girls,” Yunus said.

As a way forward, the chief advisor proposed two specific courses of action

Firstly, to build and deepen functional, impact-driven connections between the D-8 countries’ universities and equivalent knowledge institutions, particularly focused on preparing boys and girls for an entrepreneurial purpose other than its own sake.

“Our aim should be to generate knowledge output that can produce global secure business and industry from leaders of D8 countries in the fiercely competitive global marketplace, with our niche. If this asks to re-look at the D-8 trade and investment frameworks afresh, we should do so,” the chief advisor said.

Secondly, to think of a cooperative learning agenda that can complement the national undertakings now that basic AI-based tools and applications are accessible, he said.

For years, the D-8 countries tried to impart basic education and skills to millions in their countries through conventional in-person institutional architecture, which was often an increasingly daunting task.

“To reach ‘scale’, we tried through distance learning, for instance. We need to think deeper as to how to skill millions of young adults in a workplace where right attitudes – values – ethics matter as much as hard skills. And, then we also confront the challenge to re-skill many millions at different vocational streams, on a continuous basis,” the chief advisor said.



Title: Oil prices fall on demand concerns, strong dollar

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT

The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County, Texas, US November 24, 2019. REUTERS

Oil prices fell in early trading on Friday on worries about demand growth in 2025, especially in top crude importer China, putting global oil benchmarks on track to end the week down more than 2%.

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell 26 cents, or 0.26%, to $69.12 per barrel.

Chinese state-owned refiner Sinopec said in its annual energy outlook, released on Thursday, that China's imports could peak as soon as 2025 and the country's oil consumption would peak by 2027 as diesel and gasoline demand weaken.

The dollar's climb to a two-year high also weighed on oil prices, after the Federal Reserve flagged it would be cautious about cutting interest rates in 2025.

A stronger dollar makes oil more expensive for holders of other currencies, while a slower pace of rate cuts could dampen economic growth and trim oil demand.

In a move that could pare supply, G7 countries are considering ways to tighten the price cap on Russian oil, such as with an outright ban or by lowering the price threshold, Bloomberg reported on Thursday. Russia has evaded the $60 per barrel cap imposed in 2022 using its "shadow fleet" of ships, which the EU and Britain have targeted with further sanctions in recent days.



Title: FedEx to spin off its freight trucking business

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation

A driver of FedEx stands with packages near a delivery truck during Black Friday preparations in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, US, November 26, 2024. REUTERS

FedEx announced the much-anticipated spinoff of its freight trucking division on Thursday, as it restructures operations to focus on its core delivery business.

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation.

Analysts believe the spinoff could unlock up to $20 billion in shareholder value, while clearing the way for FedEx management to zero in on merging operations of its separate Express and Ground units to boost profits. They say FedEx Freight assets were not fully appreciated within FedEx and that spinning off the trucking business as a publicly-held entity will provide an opportunity to expand and improve its operations.

Freight is one of FedEx's most profitable businesses, said Edward Jones analyst Faisal Hersi. The company trades at a relative discount to its publicly held trucking rivals like XPO and Old Dominion, meaning that making it an independent company will create value for investors, he said.

"We are encouraged that the company listened to shareholder feedback and is pursuing this route," Stephens analyst Daniel Imbro said of the spinoff.

FedEx Freight is the largest US provider of less-than-truckload services, which involve carrying multiple shipments from different customers on a single truck; the shipments are then routed through a network of service centers where they get transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. The unit's revenue fell 11% to $2.17 billion during the fiscal second quarter ended Nov 30.

Executives said FedEx Freight lost some cost-conscious customers that it had picked up after the bankruptcy of rival Yellow Corp and that the business appeared to have bottomed during the most recent quarter.

The after-hours rally in FedEx shares came despite its warning that 2025 revenue could be held back by a stubbornly challenging environment, with demand for its fastest and most lucrative deliveries from business customers remaining weak.

As a result, Memphis-based FedEx lowered its profit outlook for the full year ending May 2025, calling for adjusted profit of $19 to $20 per share. In September, FedEx cut the top end of its full-year adjusted operating income to between $20 and $21 per share from its previous range of $20 to $22 per share.

FedEx second-quarter adjusted profit fell to $0.99 billion, or $4.05 per share, from $1.01 billion, or $3.99 per share, a year earlier. Nevertheless, the result from the latest quarter topped analysts' average call for earnings of $3.90 per share, according to LSEG.

FedEx Freight turned in lower-than-expected revenue and profit during the latest quarter, due to continued weakness in the US industrial segment that includes manufacturing, metals and chemicals. That was mostly offset by ongoing cost-cutting at the company, which is slashing overhead and working to improve efficiency.

The Express unit's adjusted results improved during the quarter, helped by expense reductions and more international export volume, FedEx said. That was partly offset by higher wage and lease rates, weak US package delivery demand and the expiration of the US Postal Service contract for air transportation services on Sept 29, 2024.

FedEx again warned that the loss of USPS, its largest customer, would create a $500 million headwind in the current fiscal year.

The company and rivals like United Parcel Service are in the throes of the US holiday shipping season, when daily volumes can double.

Thanksgiving fell later than normal this year, shortening the time the companies have to deliver gifts to shoppers and inventory to retailers.

December volumes so far are ahead of FedEx's forecasts and picked up right after Cyber Monday - the first work day after Thanksgiving, when many people make online purchases.

Carriers are still shouldered with excess capacity from the early COVID shipping boom, so experts say most holiday gifts should be delivered on time.



Title: Global central banks urge caution before Trump arrival

Uncertainty grows as Trump rejects funding bill

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, December 16, 2024. REUTERS

The imminent arrival of Donald Trump in the White House was already shaping global economic policy-making this week as the US Federal Reserve flagged fewer rate cuts and other leading central banks signalled caution over their rate paths.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday but accompanied the move with a message that the incoming Trump administration gave cause for caution - a sentiment echoed by its counterparts in London, Tokyo, Frankfurt and elsewhere.

As Fed officials dialed back projections for future easing in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and start to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said of higher estimates for both growth and inflation in 2025.

Powell's repeated urging of caution around further rate cuts triggered a slide in stock prices. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

As expected, the Bank of England kept its main interest rate unchanged at 4.75% on Thursday and said it needed to stick to its existing gradual approach to cutting rates.

"With the heightened uncertainty in the economy we can't commit to when or by how much we will cut rates in the coming year," BoE Governor Andrew Bailey said.

Earlier in Asia, the Bank of Japan kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"There's uncertainty over the policies of the incoming US administration, so we need to scrutinise the impact more carefully," BOJ Governor Kazuo Ueda told a press conference, adding that Trump trade and fiscal policies would have a huge impact on the global economy and financial markets.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment.

Norway's central bank held its policy interest rate unchanged at a 16-year high of 4.50% and highlighted the risk of a trade war between the United States and China.

"Higher tariffs will likely dampen global growth, but the implications for price prospects in Norway are uncertain," the bank said.

Sweden's central bank cut its key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.50% as expected, but said it now saw reasons to be more cautious about cutting rates in early 2025.

In central Europe, the Czech National Bank paused its year-long rate-cutting campaign as expected, with lingering inflation pressures, especially for services, keeping it cautious.

UPHEAVAL

The US economy was thrown into further uncertainty after Trump pressured fellow Republicans in Congress to reject a bill to keep the government funded past the deadline of midnight on Friday and demanded lawmakers raise the nation's debt ceiling.

In the past week, the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada had already lowered interest rates. Both are seen easing further in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said that the Fed had no legal authority to hold it and no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



Title: Trump, not yet in office, already a figure in global economic policy

The US central bankers pencil in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS

The world's economic reckoning with the incoming Trump administration kicked off in earnest this week, with the US Federal Reserve flagging fewer rate cuts, a resignation in Canada over budgeting for tariffs and a heightened focus on cryptocurrencies.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday amid a busy year-end run of central bank meetings from Ottawa and Frankfurt to Tokyo and London that showed heightened uncertainty ahead of Donald Trump entering the White House in the new year.

Indeed, Fed officials not only dialled back projections for rate cuts in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were also trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

The upshot was US central bankers pencilled in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation.

That left Powell repeatedly urging "caution" around additional rate cuts from here, which triggered a slide in stock prices and a recalibration of market estimates for further easing. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and started to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said when asked if Trump's policies factored into officials' thinking.

"Some people said they didn't do so, and some people didn't say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that but some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their writing down more uncertainty around inflation."

In Asia, The Bank of Japan on Thursday kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"Uncertainty surrounding Japan's economy and prices remains high," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment, something BOJ officials may have to reckon with as the world's lone developed central bank is still trying to tighten policy.

Ahead of the Fed decision, rates had already been lowered last week by the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada, with both expected to deliver some additional easing in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Rate decisions are still due in the coming hours from central banks in Sweden, Norway and the United Kingdom.

UPHEAVAL

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Freeland said the threat of new US tariffs represented a grave danger after Trump last month warned he would issue levies on goods imported from Canada and Mexico of 25% unless the two neighbours limit the flow of migrants and fentanyl into the US.

"That means keeping our fiscal powder dry today, so we have the reserves we may need for a tariff war. That means eschewing costly political gimmicks, which we can ill afford," she wrote in a letter to Trudeau posted on X.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said the Fed had no legal authority to hold it, adding declaratively that it had no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

"That's the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed," Powell said.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: IMF agrees to release $650mn for Bangladesh’s fourth loan tranche

Bangladesh reaches agreement with the international lender on additional $750mn funding

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, has agreed to release $650 million for Bangladesh as part of the fourth tranche of its loan programme.

In addition, the international lender has reached a staff-level agreement with the Bangladesh to provide an extra $750 million in funding.

The additional financing aims to support the country’s foreign currency reserves, facilitate financial sector reforms, and help manage increasing economic pressures.

If approved by the IMF Executive Board, Bangladesh's total loan amount under the programme will increase from $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion.

As per the earlier plan, Bangladesh was scheduled to receive the loan in equal instalments by 2026.

The IMF team announced the agreement in a press release on Wednesday, following discussions with different government agencies, including the Bangladesh Bank, during their visit to Dhaka.

The release of the fourth tranche and approval of the new loan will depend on the decision of the IMF Executive Board, which will review the delegation's findings in an upcoming meeting.

The Washington-based financial institution concluded its meetings with policymakers and officials after a 13-strong delegation, headed by Chris Papageorgiou, assessed the implementation of policies during their visit from Dec 4 to Dec 18.

“Following the evaluation of the third tranche, we have reached an understanding with the Bangladeshi authorities on implementing the required policies. The final decision rests with the IMF Board,” said Chris.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha confirmed to bdnews24.com that the country will receive $650 million in the fourth tranche.



Title: Asia wary of Fed rate outlook, high bond yields

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway

Asian share markets were in a wary mood on Monday as surging bond yields challenged equity valuations, particularly for the richly priced tech sector, in a week packed with central bank meetings and major economic data.

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway.

The Federal Reserve will lead the pack on Wednesday with markets pricing a 96% probability it will cut rates by 25 basis points to a new range of 4.25% to 4.50%.

More important will be any guidance on future easing, including the "dot plot" forecasts of Fed members for rates over the next couple of years.

"We look for the updated dots to signal a median expectation for three cuts next year, down from four in the September projection," said JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli. "The median longer-run dot, which was 2.875% in September, we see moving up to 3% or maybe even 3.125%."

"That said, given the vagaries of trade and other policies next year, the signal from the dots may be even less useful than ordinarily."

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Yields on 10-year notes were up at 4.39%, having climbed 24 basis points last week alone, and threatening to breach a major bear target at 4.50%.

Rising yields make bonds more attractive versus equities while lifting the level that future cash flows are discounted at and possibly the cost of capital for companies.

Bitcoin grabbed the spotlight in early Asian trade on Monday, surging to a record high above $105,000 as it extended gains on bets Trump's return will usher in a cryptocurrency-friendly regulatory environment.

S&P 500 futures were a fraction lower on Monday, while Nasdaq futures eased 0.1%.

CHINA STRUGGLES

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed, having been flat last week.

Japan's Nikkei edged up 0.1%, while South Korea bounced 0.7% on pledges of government support.

China's blue chip index took a hit on Friday as investors awaited more detail on possible stimulus steps.

Over the weekend, an official at China's central bank said it had room to further cut the reserve requirement ratio, though credit numbers out last week showed past easing had done little to boost borrowing.

Figures on Chinese retail sales, industrial production and house prices for November are due out later Monday.

A range of surveys on global manufacturing are also due Monday, while US retail sales is due on Tuesday and a major inflation report on Friday.

The Bank of Japan, Bank of England and Norges Bank are expected to stand pat on Thursday, while the Riksbank is seen cutting rates and perhaps by 50 basis points.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

The dollar likewise held firm on the yen at 153.53 , having jumped almost 2.5% last week. The dollar index stood at 106.870 , after rising 0.9% last week.

The euro looked wobbly at $1.0508 , not helped by news ratings agency Moody's unexpectedly downgraded France on Friday.

The action came a few hours after French President Macron appointed veteran centrist Francois Bayrou as the country’s fourth premier in a year.

Political uncertainty was also clouding South Korea where the finance ministry vowed to support markets after President Yoon Suk Yeol was impeached.

A firm dollar combined with higher bond yields to restrain gold at $2,685 an ounce.

Bitcoin was having better luck, breaking above $105,000 for the first time and was last fetching $104,955.

Oil prices were supported around three-week highs by expectations that additional sanctions on Russia and Iran could tighten supplies.

Brent was down 2 cents at $74.47 a barrel, while US crude eased 12 cents to $71.17 per barrel.



