Category: https://bdnews24.com/entertainment

Title: Hollywood embraces God and the 'cowboy curious' to broaden audience

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience

Creator, director and executive producer Taylor Sheridan (L) poses with cast members Kevin Costner and Kelly Reilly at a premiere for the television series "Yellowstone" in Los Angeles, California, US, June 11, 2018. REUTERS

The script for the biblical epic "Mary," which tells the story of the Nativity from the perspective of Mary of Nazareth, languished in Hollywood for some 15 years before entering production.

As the independent film approached completion this September, it attracted interest from three major Hollywood studios and streaming giant Netflix, which emerged as the global distributor and released the movie this month.

"Mary" has ranked among Netflix's top 10 English-language movies, attracting 24.6 million views.

"The marketplace has changed dramatically over the course of the past five years," said director DJ Caruso. "Particularly in the epic or the high-quality, faith-based genre. There's a real desire or hunger out there now."

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience. Major film studios, wealthy investors and streaming services are pouring money into faith-based movies, rodeos and outdoor lifestyle programming as an alternative to superhero sagas or dramas heavy with sex and violence.

Studio executives, talent agents and television showrunners told Reuters the industry has recognized it is missing broad swaths of the United States. Donald Trump’s election as president in November, buoyed by working-class voters, underscored the importance of programming to the whole country, not just cities on the coasts.

Hollywood has periodically mined the Bible for box office gold with films such as "The Ten Commandments" and "Noah." The success of Angel Studios' "Sound of Freedom," a 2023 thriller loosely based on the story of a Homeland Security agent who rescues children from sex trafficking, won over religious and conservative audiences and sparked new interest in the genre.

FROM HORROR TO FAITH

Hollywood's master of modern horror, "Paranormal Activity" filmmaker Jason Blum, joined Lionsgate and other investors in backing The Wonder Project, an independent studio that raised more than $75 million to produce faith-based films and series for Amazon Prime Video. Its series about a biblical king, "House of David," will be released in February.

"There are an awful lot of people throughout the country that think this is exactly the type of programming they'd like to watch -- particularly with their families," said Lionsgate Vice Chairman Michael Burns.

Lionsgate this year renewed its partnership with Kingdom Story Company, the production company behind "Jesus Revolution."

Netflix, meanwhile, struck a multiyear deal with acclaimed filmmaker and actor Tyler Perry to produce faith-based films for the streaming service.

Some executives told Reuters the industry has recognised it is missing broad regions of the US with films and TV shows that garner critical acclaim but draw a narrow audience.

The disparity is exemplified by the commercial success of Paramount Network's "Yellowstone," the Western family melodrama that swept America's heartland. "Yellowstone" attracted more than 11.4 million viewers in its fifth-season finale -- nearly four times as many as the 2023 finale of the Emmy-winning HBO series "Succession."

Thomas Tull, founder of superhero movie producer Legendary Entertainment, recognized the opportunity before many others. Together with TWG Global and Guggenheim Partners CEO Mark Walter, he launched Teton Ridge in 2019, a Western sports, entertainment and lifestyle brand built around rodeos. The company, which is owned by TWG Global, attracted additional investment from venture capitalist Jim Breyer and the Lee Bass family office.

The live competitions -- which include bull riding, steer wrestling and barrel racing -- attract a global audience of 80 million people a year.

COWBOY HEROES

Teton Ridge saddled up, last month acquiring The Cowboy Channel and Cowgirl Channel, a deal that secured exclusive media rights to more than 600 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association rodeos. That augments its collection of Western sports properties, which include the American Rodeo Contender Series, whose championship weekend is carried live on Fox Sports, and the "Let's Freakin' Rodeo" podcast, hosted by top-ranked tie-down roper Ty Harris and his cousin, filmmaker Cole Harris.

Meanwhile, Teton Ridge Entertainment is exploring Western stories in films, series and documentaries, including adapting the late bestselling author Louis L’Amour’s novel “Fallon,” which is set in the Old West, appealing to an audience CEO Deirdre Lester describes as the “cowboy curious.”

"Our mission is to be making content for an underserved audience," said Jillian Share, president of Teton Ridge Entertainment. "Making stuff where it appeals to a much larger part of our country than a lot of the stuff that we -- myself included -- have been focused on for the last 20 years of my career.”

She called the cowboy “the first true, great American hero.”

“You look at superheroes and you look at Marvel and DC, and you're like, what's more iconic than the cowboy?” Share said.

Veteran entertainment executive Peter Chernin's investment fund The Chernin Group became the principal investor in MeatEater in 2018, a blossoming media brand built around outdoorsman Steven Rinella, a best-selling author, podcaster and host of a forthcoming History Channel series, “Hunting History.”

Some, however, feel sidelined by Hollywood’s pursuit of the American heartland. They worry that executives have become fearful of being branded "woke," a label hurled at Walt Disney by Florida Governor and former Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

One television showrunner, who was in the final phase of negotiations for a streaming series featuring a diverse cast, learned a day after Trump’s election that the project would not go forward. The showrunner, who requested anonymity for fear of retaliation, saw a correlation between the programming decision and Trump’s victory.

Another development executive shared an email from one network executive, who rejected a project as too "political."

Earlier this year, the makers of "The Apprentice," a biopic about Trump, struggled to find a distributor even after an enthusiastic reception at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

An attorney for Trump sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers. Briarcliff Entertainment released the movie in October, and stars Sebastian Stan and Jeremy Strong were nominated for Golden Globe awards.

This week, Disney said it had removed a transgender storyline from upcoming Pixar animation series "Win or Lose." The character will remain in the show, but the few lines of dialogue that reference the character's gender identity have been removed.

"When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline," a Disney spokesperson said.



Title: Brazilian judge orders Adele song removed over plagiarism claim

Adele is accused of copying a song ‘Mulheres’, a national hit since the 1990s

Adele waves to singer Beyonce who is in the audience as she and co-song writer Greg Kurstin (not pictured) accept the Grammy for Song of the Year for "Hello" at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US , Feb 12, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson

A judge in Rio de Janeiro has ordered the global removal of a 2015 song by British singer Adele due to a plagiarism claim by a Brazilian musician, which Universal Music is fighting on appeal.

The ruling, made public on Monday, came in a case filed this year by Toninho Geraes, whose compositions were made famous by some of Brazil's most acclaimed samba singers.

Geraes accused Adele of copying his song "Mulheres", a national hit since the 1990s. His lawyers uploaded to YouTube a comparison of that song and Adele's "Million Years Ago".

"The ruling shows that the Brazilian justice system is strong and that injuries to Brazilian artists won't be ignored," said Fredimio Biasotto Trotta, a lawyer for Geraes.

The decision orders Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music to immediately cease "using, reproducing, editing, distributing, or commercializing" the song by any means on streaming or sharing platforms, without Geraes' consent. It set a fine of 50,000 reais ($8,080.94) if the companies fail to comply with the order.

The Berne Convention, an international treaty, orders other signatory countries, including the US, to comply with legal decisions regarding copyright, Trotta said.

Geraes' lawyers are now notifying streaming services, such as Spotify SPOT.N and Deezer, to withdraw the song in Brazil and globally. On Wednesday morning, the song was still widely available.

Universal appealed the decision on Tuesday, arguing there was no plagiarism, only an "accidental melodic similarity" due to the use of "musical clichés."

Both Adele and Geraes have contracts with Universal, but the Brazilian musician has been trying to terminate his contract with the company due to his plagiarism claim, his lawyer said.

"I felt very disrespected," Geraes told Reuters. He is asking the courts for compensation of more than $150,000.

Lawyers representing Universal Music declined to comment, and Sony Music did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

Geraes learned of the similarities between the two songs after a friend, who is also a composer, heard Adele's "Million Years Ago" at a party in 2021.



Title: Tabla legend Zakir Hussain dies at 73

The musician was the winner of 4 Grammy awards and the Padma Vibhushan, India’s second-highest civilian honour

Tabla maestro Zakir Hussain has died at a hospital in the US’s San Francisco, reports Indian broadcaster NDTV. He was 73.

Zakir died from complications due to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, according to a statement from the family.

He had been in hospital for the past two weeks and was shifted to intensive care when his condition deteriorated.

Zakir’s sister Khurshid Aulia said he passed away "very peacefully".

"He passed away very peacefully after the ventilation machine was switched off. This was 4pm San Francisco time," she told PTI.

The esteemed tabla great leaves behind a wife and two daughters.

"He leaves behind an extraordinary legacy cherished by countless music lovers around the globe, with an influence that will resonate for generations to come,” the family said.

Zakir was born on Mar 9, 1951, the son of heralded tabla master Ustad Alla Rakha.

Over a career that spanned six decades, he worked with renowned artists in India and abroad. His collaborators included Indian icons Ravi Shankar, Ali Akbar Khan and Shivkumar Sharma, as well as groundbreaking work with John McLaughlin, Yo-Yo Ma, Charles Lloyd, Bela Fleck, Edgar Meyer, Mickey Hart and George Harrison.

One of India’s most celebrated classical musicians, Zakir received the Padma Shri in 1988, Padma Bhushan in 2002, and the Padma Vibhushan -- India’s second-highest civilian honour -- in 2023.

He was also acclaimed on the international stage, taking home four Grammy Awards, including three at the ceremony earlier this year.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan hailed Zakir as "a beacon of India's rich musical heritage and a true custodian of classical traditions".

"Ustad Zakir Hussain was instrumental in popularising Indian music across the globe, serving as a beacon of India's rich musical heritage. A true custodian of classical traditions, his contributions to the arts remain unparalleled. His passing is a monumental loss to culture and humanity. Heartfelt condolences to his loved ones," he said.

Expressing his condolences to Zakir's family, Congress President Mallikarjun Kharge called him a "cultural ambassador who bridged borders and generations with his mesmerising rhythms".

"The Padma Vibhushan tabla maestro and percussionist, gloriously took forward the legacy of his father with exceptional performances and collaborations. His numerous national and international honours are a testament to this.”



Title: Allu Arjun vows cooperation in probe into woman's death at 'Pushpa 2' premiere after release from jail

The South Indian star was arrested over a stampede that killed a woman and injured a child at a screening of his latest blockbuster

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun has promised to cooperate in the probe into the stampede at the screening of his latest blockbuster 'Pushpa 2: The Rule' that killed a woman and seriously injured a child in Hyderabad following his release from jail.

He stressed that he is a law-abiding citizen and expressed his condolences to the victim's family after being freed on bail on Saturday, Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

"I want to thank all my fans. There is nothing to worry about. I would like to once again express my condolences to the family. It was an unfortunate incident. We are sorry for what happened," he said.

Allu Arjun was arrested on Friday in connection with the fatal incident at Hyberabad's Sandhya Theatre on Dec 4. Despite securing bail from a Telangana High Court, he had to spend the night behind bars as the jail authorities did not received a copy of the bail order until late last night.

The actor's counsel Ashok Reddy pointed the finger at the authorities for the delay in his release from jail. "The High Court order is very specific. Forthwith, the moment you [prison authorities] receive the order, [they should] release him. Despite the clear order, they have not released, they have to answer. This is an illegal detention. We will take legal steps," he is quoted as saying by NDTV.

Hours after Allu Arjun's arrest, the victim's husband said that he was "ready to withdraw the case".

"I was not aware of the arrest. Allu Arjun has nothing to do with the stampede in which my wife passed away," he said.

ALLU ARJUN THANKS SUPPORTERS

After an emotional reunion with his family, the actor expressed gratitude to everyone who supported him following his arrest, especially his fans. He reiterated that the stampede and subsequent death of the woman were "purely accidental and unintentional, with no connection to me".

He added that he had been visiting Sandhya Theatre for 20 years and had never witnessed such an incident before.

WHAT HAPPENED ON DEC 4?

A 35-year-old woman died and her eight-year-old son was hospitalised after a stampede broke out as thousands of fans gathered to catch a glimpse of Allu Arjun at the premiere of the blockbuster Pushpa 2.

WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?

In the aftermath of the incident, city police filed a case against the actor, his security team, and the theatre management based on a complaint lodged by the woman's family.

Reacting to the arrest, Rashmika Mandanna, Arjun's Pushpa 2 co-star, said she was "disheartened to see everything being blamed on a single individual".

Actor Varun Dhawan also weighed in, saying, "Safety protocols can't be solely the responsibility of an actor. We can inform people around us, but the incident was tragic, and I express my condolences. However, the blame can't rest on one person alone."



Title: Actor Allu Arjun arrested after woman's death in 'Pushpa 2' screening stampede

A stampede erupted at Hyderabad's Sandhya Theatre after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance during the film's premiere

Indian police have arrested Telugu superstar Allu Arjun in connection with a stampede that occurred outside a Hyderabad theatre and led to a woman's death.

The stampede broke out after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance at the theatre during a screening of his new film 'Pusha 2: The Rule', Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

Earlier, Hyderabad police filed a case naming the 41-year-old actor and others, including his security team members and the management of the Sandhya Theatre.

The victim was a 35-year-old woman. Her eight-year-old son was also injured in the stampede that erupted as the massive crowd jostled and shoved each other to catch a glimpse of Arjun upon his unannounced arrival.

"There was no intimation from the side of theatre management or actors' team... that they will be visiting the theatre..." Hyderabad Police Commissioner CV Anand had said.

He also noted that no separate entry, or exit, were provided, even though the theatre authorities knew they were coming.

Arjun arrived at the theatre at 9:30pm. He used the main entrance and spent 15-20 minutes outside. As news of his arrival spread, hundreds of people thronged to catch a glimpse of him.

His security team started pushing the crowd back and that aggravated the situation.

Revathi, the deceased woman, and her son felt "suffocated", police said. They were pulled out of the crowd by police who performed emergency first aid and shifted them to a nearby hospital.

Arjun, by this time, had gone into the theatre, but the crowd had continued building in the lobby.

The actor has since announced assistance of Rs 2.5 million for the woman's family, and also promised to take care of the medical expenses of the child, whose condition was critical.



Title: Another fan dies during screening of Allu Arjun's 'Pushpa-2' in India

A woman had previously been killed in a stampede while attending the Allu Arjun starrer's premiere in Hyderabad

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun's "Pushpa 2: The Rule" has been marred by the death of another viewer during a screening at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh.

Despite dominating the Indian box office since its release, the film has now been overshadowed by two deaths in theatres, sparking widespread concern.

According to The Hindustan Times, the latest incident occurred on Monday when the body of 35-year-old Harijana Madhannappa was found at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh' Rayadurgam.

Ravi Babu, an Andhra Pradesh police official, said that Madhannappa attended a 2:30pm screening on Monday.

He allegedly arrived intoxicated and continued drinking inside the theatre, according to Babu. Around 6pm, cleaning staff discovered him unresponsive, he said.

Police noted that Madhannappa, a father of four, had a history of alcohol abuse.

The exact cause of death has yet to be determined, but a case has been filed over the matter, Babu said.

Earlier, on Dec 4, 32-year-old Revathi was trampled to death while attending the premiere of "Pushpa 2" in Hyderabad. She was accompanied by her 9-year-old son Sritej, who fainted amid the chaos.

Following the incident, Revathi’s family filed a lawsuit against Allu Arjun, his security team, and the theatre authorities.

In response, Allu Arjun pledged Rs 2.5 million in compensation to Revathi’s family and assured that he would cover all medical expenses for her son Sritej.

Police have launched separate investigations into both incidents.

"Pushpa 2", directed by Sukumar, premiered on Dec 5. Starring Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna, the film has been a box office sensation, earning over Rs 6.45 billion in its first week of release.



Title: 'Hopefully it'll happen soon': Aamir hints at doing a film with Shah Rukh and Salman

“I was the person who brought this up and told Shah Rukh and Salman that it would be really sad if the three of us didn't do a film together."

Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, and Salman Khan -- the big 3 of Bollywood -- have been ruling the box office and shaping Hindi cinema for three decades. While Salman has shared the screen with both Aamir and Shah Rukh, the three Khans have never starred in a film together.

With past feuds, public spats and tensions now seemingly behind them, Aamir teased the tantalising prospect of a collaboration involving the iconic trio. A 'great script' is all that's missing, according to him.

In an interview with Indian news agency ANI, Aamir revealed that the idea of the three Khans working together on a project has been discussed, though the last conversation on the subject happened "about six months back".

Aamir, whose meticulous approach to filmmaking has earned him the moniker ‘Mr Perfectionist’, said, “I was the person who brought this up and told Shah Rukh and Salman that it would be really sad if the three of us didn't do a film together.”

"I think Salman and Shah Rukh were equally in agreement and were, 'Yes, we must do a film together. The three of us.' Hopefully, it will happen soon."

Asked about the roadblock to the dream collaboration, Aamir said, “It will need the right kind of story. So, we'll have to wait for the right script. We are all looking forward to it."

Last year, Shah Rukh and Salman appeared together in the blockbuster 'Pathaan'. While Aamir admitted he hasn’t watched the entire film, he revealed that the 'train track scene' featuring the duo left him in splits, the Hindustan Times reports.

“I have found the scene really funny. I have not seen that film but I have seen that scene. You get clips nowadays on Instagram and all that so I ended up seeing that scene it's quite funny,” he said.

"I think all the young actors must have got really upset and you can't even get too upset with Shah Rukh and Salman. What can you say?"



Title: Jay-Z lawyer says anonymous rape accuser must reveal her identity or drop lawsuit

The lawsuit alleges that Jay-Z and fellow rap mogul Sean 'Diddy' Combs raped a 13-year-old girl at a party in 2000

FILE PHOTO: Jay Z accepts the Dr Dre Global Impact Award during the 66th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US, February 4, 2024. REUTERS

A lawyer for Shawn Carter, the hip-hop mogul known as Jay-Z, has called for the woman who has accused the rapper of raping her when she was 13 to disclose her identity or have the lawsuit dismissed.

The lawsuit, initially filed in October, involved a woman identified only as "Jane Doe", who accused rapper Sean 'Diddy' Combs of raping her at a party following the MTV Video Music Awards in 2000. The complaint was amended on Dec 8 to allege that Jay-Z was also present and participated in the assault.

In a court filing on Monday, Jay-Z’s attorney Alex Spiro argued that the accuser failed to provide sufficient evidence to justify her anonymity, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

“Mr Carter deserves to know the identity of the person who is effectively accusing him — in sensationalised, publicity-hunting fashion — of criminal conduct, demanding massive financial compensation and tarnishing a reputation earned over decades,” Spiro wrote. “He has never been accused of, let alone engaged in, any sexual misconduct.”

Spiro also highlighted other sexual misconduct cases filed against Combs by the plaintiff’s attorney, Tony Buzbee. According to Spiro, these cases similarly lack grounds for proceeding under anonymity.

Jay-Z denied the allegations on social media and blasted the lawsuit, calling it part of a "blackmail attempt" by the plaintiff's lawyer, Reuters reports.

The lawsuit was originally filed in the Southern District of New York and at that time did not name Jay-Z as a defendant, though the amended lawsuit says that Jay-Z was identified as "Celebrity A" on the original complaint, according to Reuters.

Combs has denied all allegations against him, including this one, in October. He is currently in jail on federal sex trafficking charges, to which he has pleaded not guilty.

The lawsuit alleges that the unnamed girl was drugged and raped by both Jay-Z and Combs at a party hosted by Combs following the MTV Music Awards in 2000, which was held in New York.

Buzbee, the Texas lawyer representing the girl who filed the lawsuit, has filed at least 20 civil lawsuits against Combs accusing him of sexual misconduct.

In an email to Reuters, Buzbee said the Jay-Z lawsuit "speaks for itself".

"This is a very serious matter that will be litigated in court," Buzbee wrote.

Buzbee, in his amended lawsuit, says his legal firm had previously sent Jay-Z a letter seeking to mediate a settlement.

Jay-Z, the lawsuit says, responded to that letter by filing a lawsuit against Buzbee, and by "orchestrating a conspiracy of harassment" against Buzbee and other lawyers in his firm, which the lawyer said was an intimidation tactic meant to silence his client.

In a post on social media, Buzbee said the alleged rape victim he is representing "never demanded a penny" from Jay-Z, writing that "she only sought a confidential mediation."

Buzbee last week filed a lawsuit against law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, whose lawyers represent Combs and Jay-Z, accusing the firm's legal team of harassing his colleagues, his clients and his family.

Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan did not respond to requests for comment.



Title: Chris Evans set for MCU return in ‘Avengers: Doomsday’

The announcement has sparked speculation about whether Evans will reprise his role as Captain America, or the Human Torch

Chris Evans poses at the premiere of the holiday film "Red One" in New York City, US, Nov 11, 2024. REUTERS/Kent J Edwards

Chris Evans is set to make his return to the Marvel Cinematic Universe with Avengers: Doomsday, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The film, slated for a May 1, 2026 release, will be directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, Evans's long-time collaborators behind four of his MCU appearances.

Also joining the project is Robert Downey Jr, who will take on the role of Doctor Doom. The announcement has sparked speculation about whether Evans will reprise his role as Steve Rogers, also known as Captain America, or Johnny Storm, the Human Torch—a character he played in Fox’s Fantastic Four films and revisited in this year’s “Deadpool & Wolverine”.

Evans first stepped into the Marvel universe as Johnny Storm in the 2005 “Fantastic Four” and its 2007 sequel, “Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer”. However, he solidified his superhero legacy as Steve Rogers, debuting in “Captain America: The First Avenger” (2011) and going on to appear in a string of Marvel blockbusters, including “The Avengers” (2012), “Captain America: The Winter Soldier” (2014), and “Avengers: Endgame” (2019).

In “Endgame”, Rogers’ storyline culminated with the character passing his iconic shield to Sam Wilson, played by Anthony Mackie, and retiring to live a quiet life with his love, Peggy Carter.

While the actor’s emotional farewell tweet in October 2018 suggested finality, Evans hinted in a 2023 interview with GQ that a return was not entirely off the table.

“I wouldn’t want the black eye if it felt like a cash grab or if it didn’t live up to expectations or if it just felt like it wasn’t connected to that original thing,” he said.

Evans' potential return comes at a time when Marvel seeks to revitalise its cinematic slate amid evolving audience expectations. Fans eagerly await confirmation of his role and the broader implications for the MCU’s ongoing narrative experiment.



Title: 'Emilia Perez,' 'The Brutalist' lead Golden Globe film nominations

The Globe winners will be chosen by 334 entertainment journalists from 85 countries

Golden Globe statues are displayed, before the announcement of nominations for the 82nd Golden Globe Awards in Beverly Hills, California, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni

Musical thriller "Emilia Perez" and historical epic "The Brutalist" led the roster of films nominated on Monday for the 2025 Golden Globes, the Hollywood honors that kick off the movie awards season leading to the Oscars.

"Emilia Perez," released by Netflix, scored 10 nods and "The Brutalist," from independent distributor A24, earned seven.

Taking home a Globe can help movies in the race to the Academy Awards in March. Last year's Hollywood strikes scrambled this year's release schedule, and awards pundits say there is no clear frontrunner for best picture at the Oscars.

"Emilia Perez" stars Zoe Saldana as a lawyer who helps a drug cartel leader (Spanish actor Karla Sofía Gascón) fake his death and transition from a man to a woman. Selena Gomez co-stars as the cartel leader's wife. All three were nominated for by Globes voters for acting honors.

"The Brutalist" stars Adrien Brody in an epic tale of a Hungarian immigrant who flees the horrors of World War Two to rebuild his life in the United States.

Box office smash "Wicked," adapted from a long-running Broadway play about the witches in "The Wizard of Oz," landed four nominations.



Title: Global music stars head to India as young, affluent Indians pack concerts

Dua Lipa and Maroon 5 performed in India's financial capital Mumbai in the past seven days, while Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, Shawn Mendes and Green Day have concerts planned over the next three months

Girls hold posters outside the venue of the Dua Lipa concert in Mumbai, India November 30, 2024. REUTERS

Young, well-to-do Indians’ booming appetite for live entertainment is attracting global music stars as they seek out new audiences in the world’s most populous nation.

Dua Lipa and Maroon 5 performed in India's financial capital Mumbai in the past seven days, while Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, Shawn Mendes and Green Day have concerts planned over the next three months.

"We've been listening to these artists online for years so seeing them in real life is quite exciting," said Aseem Khan, a 23-year old from Bhopal in central India, as he queued with three friends to see British-Albanian pop star Dua Lipa.

About 20,000 people went to the Mumbai concert. Like Khan, many were in their early to mid 20s, and had travelled from across India to see the show. Two-thirds of the country's 1.4 billion population is under the age of 35.

Performances are a great way to spend "a weekend with multiple groups of friends as everyone is going to concerts these days," Khan said.

Affluent, globally connected Indians are driving the demand, according to executives at event management and ticketing firms.

"India is the second largest audio streaming market for most global artists around the world, translating very effectively to heightened demand on-ground for music concerts," said Anil Makhija, chief operating office for live entertainment and venues at BookMyShow, India's largest online ticketing platform.

The interest has changed how global stars are looking at India, said Adam Wilkes, president and chief executive for Asia Pacific at AEG, a live entertainment firm.

The video player is currently playing an ad. You can skip the ad in 5 sec with a mouse or keyboard

"What's been interesting the last few years is that it's gone from us saying, 'Hey, you ever think about India?' To them (artists) saying, 'Hey, I want to go to India,'" Wilkes said.

The concert boom has lifted other forms of live entertainment. There have been 27,000 live events, from music to comedy shows and theatre, in India so far this year to November, 35% more than in the same period last year, according to BookMyShow data.

Economists predict spillover effects into the wider economy as concert-goers splash out on transport, hotels, food and merchandise.

There will be a "significant boost to overall spending and consumption," Dipanwita Mazumdar and Jahnavi Prabhakar, economists at Bank of Baroda, wrote in a report on Dec 3.

At the current pace, they estimated concert-linked spending could total between 60 billion rupees ($708.5 million) and 80 billion rupees on an annualised basis over the next 12 months.

AEG's Wilkes says infrastructure improvements have also reduced the logistical challenges of staging shows in India, helped by the success of major sporting events such as cricket's IPL.

BEHIND THE BOOM

Affluent Indians' disposable income has been increasing even as growth in the world's fifth largest economy sees a slowdown and the middle class reins in spending on consumer goods.

While India's average per capita income remains low at close to $2,500 a year and there is significant inequality, the number of Indians earning more than 1 million Indian rupees ($11,807.77) a year has more than doubled to over 12 million over the last five financial years to March 2024, according to government data. India's financial year runs from April to March.

The cheapest tickets for Coldplay's upcoming shows were 2,500 rupees ($29.50) and the most expensive 35,000 rupees ($414). By comparison, prices for a Coldplay concert in South Korea were priced between $46.63 and $761.

Tickets for the initial two India shows sold out within minutes, prompting the band to add three more dates including two in the northwestern city of Ahmedabad.

Announcing the Ahmedabad performances would take place in a 130,000-seater stadium named after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Coldplay said it would be their "biggest ever show".

It was a sign of how the appetite for live events has spread beyond India's most prominent cities.

"Tier 2 and 3 cities are now the thriving hubs for out-of-home entertainment," said Makhija of BookMyShow.

Bryan Adams is set to perform in the northeastern city of Shillong next week while Ed Sheeran kicks off his 2025 tour of India from Pune, a city about 150 km (100 miles) southeast of Mumbai.

Stacked bar chart showing income distribution of individuals earning over 1 million rupees per year in India

Stacked bar chart showing income distribution of individuals earning over 1 million rupees per year in India

Aggregate revenue from India’s live entertainment market is expected to reach about $1.7 billion by 2026, growing at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 20% over the next three to five years, according to estimates from consulting firm Ernst and Young.

"If India can become 5-6 plus cities, like what Ed (Sheeran) is doing, then you're sort of in the same bucket as Canada, UK, Japan, Australia, China. Those are the top, top markets for live entertainment after the United States," said AEG's Wilkes.

Sheeran, who first played in India in 2015, has talked enthusiastically about the country and the joy of performing there.

"I really feel the love here, in India. People are so excited! I have a similar personality, so I resonate with that," he said in a media interview earlier this year.



Title: Taposh, wife among 5 sued over 'illegal takeover' of Gaan Bangla

A court sets Jan 1 for the submission of the investigation report in the case

A case has been filed over the alleged illegal takeover of 'Gaan Bangla', the country’s only music-based private television channel, against its Managing Director Kaushik Hossain Taposh, his wife and Chairperson Farzana Munni, and three others.

The case was initiated by Syed Shams Uddin Ahmed, according to Sub-Inspector Moktar, the general registration officer at Gulshan Police Station.

The other accused include Rabi Shankar Maitree, M Amanullah Khan (Chanchal Khan), Syed Nabil Ashraf, and four unidentified individuals.

SI Moktar said that the complainant submitted a petition to the court of Additional Metropolitan Magistrate Sanaullah in Dhaka on Nov 25. The judge accepted the petition and instructed the chief of Gulshan Police Station to register it as an official case.

The case was officially filed and on Dec 3, it was forwarded to court. After reviewing the complaint, Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate Sharifur Rahman set Jan 1 as the deadline for submitting the investigation report.

Investigating officer SI Harunor Rashid from Gulshan Police Station said, "The case is currently under investigation. Once the investigation is complete, we will submit the report to the court."

According to the case documents, Shams, along with Md Badruddoza Sagar, Bakhtiar Shikdar, and Rabi Shankar Maitree, had registered a company called Birds Eye Mass Media and Communication PLC on July 25, 2011, with the aim of opening a private satellite television channel.

The petitioner held 7,000 shares, while the others held 1,000 shares each, making up a total of 10,000 shares with a primary capital of Tk 10 million.

On Dec 22, 2011, Shams, who was the chairman and managing director of Birds Eye Mass Media, visited Amanullah Khan's home at the request of Amanullah and Rabi Shankar. Around 8pm that evening, Taposh, Farzana Munni, Nabil Ashraf, and several unidentified individuals arrived and demanded that Shams Uddin and Badruddoza Sagar sign documents, threatening them with firearms.

The plaintiff alleges that it became clear from their conversation that the suspects intended to seize Shams Uddin’s and Sagar’s 8,000 shares in Birds Eye Mass Media. Fearing for their lives, Shams Uddin and Sagar signed the documents.

The suspects also threatened to file cases against them or even kill them if they reported the incident or revealed any details. The suspects claimed to have the backing of influential figures from the previous government.

In fear of their safety, the plaintiffs filed a general diary with Mirpur Police Station on Dec 25, 2011, and subsequently left the country. After spending an extended period abroad, Shams Uddin returned to Bangladesh, confident that the rule of law had been restored. He then decided to file the case after consulting with all witnesses.

Rabi Shankar Maitree, one of the suspects in the case, denied the allegations, calling them “utterly fake” and “an extreme lie”. He claimed that similar cases had been filed with different plaintiffs’ names and dates, adding that Taposh and Munni had joined Gaan Bangla in July 2012. He also said that Shams Uddin had previously filed a case only against him and Amanullah Khan.

Expressing his disappointment, he said, "I lost my home country only for being one of the initiators of Gaan Bangla TV. My life in Bangladesh was ruined because of some rogues and barbarians. I am now living well in France. I don’t feel like talking about it, but one day, I’ll share everything in a live-stream on social media."

Attempts to reach Amanullah Khan, Syed Nabil Ashraf, and Farzana Munni for comment were unsuccessful. The key suspect, Taposh, is currently in jail in connection with the murder of a trader during the anti-discrimination movement in July.



Title: Director Jack Huston on battle behind first film 'Day of the Fight'

His first film stars Michael Pitt, Nicolette Robinson, Joe Pesci, Steve Buscemi and Ron Perlman and arrives in theaters on Friday

Cast member Jack Huston attends the Premiere of the film 'House of Gucci' at Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York City, New York, US, Nov 16, 2021. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz

Actor and director Jack Huston’s rich family history in Hollywood did not guarantee him an effortless process when directing and writing his first feature film, “Day of the Fight.”

"I can, without question, say this has been the hardest thing I've ever done in my life,” said Huston, grandson of late director John Huston and son of actor and assistant director Tony Huston.

“It's also still happening. The film hasn't come out yet. I mean, every day is still a fight. It's fight of the day not day of the fight. Every day is a new fight, a new hurdle,” he added.

“Day of the Fight,” distributed by Falling Forward Films, stars Michael Pitt, Nicolette Robinson, Joe Pesci, Steve Buscemi and Ron Perlman and arrives in theaters on Friday.

Huston’s great-grandfather Walter Huston was a leading man during Hollywood’s silent film era and won an Oscar for the film “The Treasure of the Sierra Madre,” directed by John Huston, who also won two Oscars for directing and writing that film.

Jack's aunt, Hollywood star Anjelica Huston, and his uncle, director and actor Danny Huston were also well-known in the industry.

Huston took some family advice when casting the lead Michael Pitt, who portrays Mike Flannigan, otherwise known by his boxer name Irish Mike, a terminally ill boxer trying to make amends in his life before he dies.

"I take a nice piece of advice I heard my grandfather say, which is ‘90 percent is casting,’" said Huston.

"I wrote every word for Michael Pitt. I knew that it was going to be Michael Pitt. I wouldn't have it any other way. I believe that when you cast an actor, you're giving them the role, that they own it now,” he added.

Huston and Pitt formed a bond while working together on the HBO crime drama “Boardwalk Empire.”

The film ends with a boxing fight in which Irish Mike knows he isn't going to survive.

"We had a day and a half on the boxing scene and in sort of relation to other boxing movies, that's a tenth, you know, probably a hundredth of what some other movies have had. But thank God I had Mike (Michael Pitt) as my sort of partner in crime,” the “American Hustle” actor said.

However, Pitt felt he let down the production after asking for a five-minute break during the fight scene.

“I was like, I'm tired," Pitt said. "I didn't condition myself well enough. And then someone told me how long we had been shooting. We'd been shooting for like eight hours. And I was like, oh, I'm fine."



Title: Hollywood embraces God and the 'cowboy curious' to broaden audience

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience

Creator, director and executive producer Taylor Sheridan (L) poses with cast members Kevin Costner and Kelly Reilly at a premiere for the television series "Yellowstone" in Los Angeles, California, US, June 11, 2018. REUTERS

The script for the biblical epic "Mary," which tells the story of the Nativity from the perspective of Mary of Nazareth, languished in Hollywood for some 15 years before entering production.

As the independent film approached completion this September, it attracted interest from three major Hollywood studios and streaming giant Netflix, which emerged as the global distributor and released the movie this month.

"Mary" has ranked among Netflix's top 10 English-language movies, attracting 24.6 million views.

"The marketplace has changed dramatically over the course of the past five years," said director DJ Caruso. "Particularly in the epic or the high-quality, faith-based genre. There's a real desire or hunger out there now."

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience. Major film studios, wealthy investors and streaming services are pouring money into faith-based movies, rodeos and outdoor lifestyle programming as an alternative to superhero sagas or dramas heavy with sex and violence.

Studio executives, talent agents and television showrunners told Reuters the industry has recognized it is missing broad swaths of the United States. Donald Trump’s election as president in November, buoyed by working-class voters, underscored the importance of programming to the whole country, not just cities on the coasts.

Hollywood has periodically mined the Bible for box office gold with films such as "The Ten Commandments" and "Noah." The success of Angel Studios' "Sound of Freedom," a 2023 thriller loosely based on the story of a Homeland Security agent who rescues children from sex trafficking, won over religious and conservative audiences and sparked new interest in the genre.

FROM HORROR TO FAITH

Hollywood's master of modern horror, "Paranormal Activity" filmmaker Jason Blum, joined Lionsgate and other investors in backing The Wonder Project, an independent studio that raised more than $75 million to produce faith-based films and series for Amazon Prime Video. Its series about a biblical king, "House of David," will be released in February.

"There are an awful lot of people throughout the country that think this is exactly the type of programming they'd like to watch -- particularly with their families," said Lionsgate Vice Chairman Michael Burns.

Lionsgate this year renewed its partnership with Kingdom Story Company, the production company behind "Jesus Revolution."

Netflix, meanwhile, struck a multiyear deal with acclaimed filmmaker and actor Tyler Perry to produce faith-based films for the streaming service.

Some executives told Reuters the industry has recognised it is missing broad regions of the US with films and TV shows that garner critical acclaim but draw a narrow audience.

The disparity is exemplified by the commercial success of Paramount Network's "Yellowstone," the Western family melodrama that swept America's heartland. "Yellowstone" attracted more than 11.4 million viewers in its fifth-season finale -- nearly four times as many as the 2023 finale of the Emmy-winning HBO series "Succession."

Thomas Tull, founder of superhero movie producer Legendary Entertainment, recognized the opportunity before many others. Together with TWG Global and Guggenheim Partners CEO Mark Walter, he launched Teton Ridge in 2019, a Western sports, entertainment and lifestyle brand built around rodeos. The company, which is owned by TWG Global, attracted additional investment from venture capitalist Jim Breyer and the Lee Bass family office.

The live competitions -- which include bull riding, steer wrestling and barrel racing -- attract a global audience of 80 million people a year.

COWBOY HEROES

Teton Ridge saddled up, last month acquiring The Cowboy Channel and Cowgirl Channel, a deal that secured exclusive media rights to more than 600 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association rodeos. That augments its collection of Western sports properties, which include the American Rodeo Contender Series, whose championship weekend is carried live on Fox Sports, and the "Let's Freakin' Rodeo" podcast, hosted by top-ranked tie-down roper Ty Harris and his cousin, filmmaker Cole Harris.

Meanwhile, Teton Ridge Entertainment is exploring Western stories in films, series and documentaries, including adapting the late bestselling author Louis L’Amour’s novel “Fallon,” which is set in the Old West, appealing to an audience CEO Deirdre Lester describes as the “cowboy curious.”

"Our mission is to be making content for an underserved audience," said Jillian Share, president of Teton Ridge Entertainment. "Making stuff where it appeals to a much larger part of our country than a lot of the stuff that we -- myself included -- have been focused on for the last 20 years of my career.”

She called the cowboy “the first true, great American hero.”

“You look at superheroes and you look at Marvel and DC, and you're like, what's more iconic than the cowboy?” Share said.

Veteran entertainment executive Peter Chernin's investment fund The Chernin Group became the principal investor in MeatEater in 2018, a blossoming media brand built around outdoorsman Steven Rinella, a best-selling author, podcaster and host of a forthcoming History Channel series, “Hunting History.”

Some, however, feel sidelined by Hollywood’s pursuit of the American heartland. They worry that executives have become fearful of being branded "woke," a label hurled at Walt Disney by Florida Governor and former Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

One television showrunner, who was in the final phase of negotiations for a streaming series featuring a diverse cast, learned a day after Trump’s election that the project would not go forward. The showrunner, who requested anonymity for fear of retaliation, saw a correlation between the programming decision and Trump’s victory.

Another development executive shared an email from one network executive, who rejected a project as too "political."

Earlier this year, the makers of "The Apprentice," a biopic about Trump, struggled to find a distributor even after an enthusiastic reception at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

An attorney for Trump sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers. Briarcliff Entertainment released the movie in October, and stars Sebastian Stan and Jeremy Strong were nominated for Golden Globe awards.

This week, Disney said it had removed a transgender storyline from upcoming Pixar animation series "Win or Lose." The character will remain in the show, but the few lines of dialogue that reference the character's gender identity have been removed.

"When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline," a Disney spokesperson said.



Title: Dias injury latest blow in Manchester City's calamitous run

Defender Akanji has returned to training after injury, boosting Guardiola's squad

Football - Premier League - Manchester City v Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - Dec 15, 2024 Manchester United's Rasmus Hojlund in action with Manchester City's Ruben Dias Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff/File Photo

Manchester City will be without defender Ruben Dias for three to four weeks with a muscle injury, manager Pep Guardiola said on Friday, another blow for the reeling champions whose hopes of hanging on to the Premier League title are dwindling.

City travel to Aston Villa on Saturday hoping to right the ship amid the worst run of results in Guardiola's managerial career that has them languishing fifth in the league table. They also have just one victory to show for their last 11 games across all competitions.

Dias was injured in City's calamitous 2-1 derby loss to Manchester United on Sunday.

"It was a muscular injury, (after) 75 minutes against Manchester United he felt something. He is so strong and he stayed on the pitch and now he is injured," Guardiola told reporters on Friday.

Fellow defender Manuel Akanji, however, returned to training this week after suffering an injury early this month, "which is good for us," Guardiola said.

City lost to United in spectacular fashion last weekend, leading in the 88th minute before their cross-town rivals scored two goals in less than two minutes.

Guardiola looked disconsolate after, and pointed the finger squarely at himself for the shocking run, telling reporters during a long and heartfelt post-game press conference that "I am not good enough."

His mood had improved by Friday.

"I just finished a game where we were close to winning and we lost. For the sequences that happened I was not happy," Guardiola said. "I tried to be honest with myself here right now in six or seven days ago, (but) if you fall down six times you have to stand up seven.

"I am fine. I am a normal person with feelings like all of us. When a situation is going well we are better and when it is not going well professionally we are more (focused) on what we have to do."

Just two points and two places behind Guardiola's team in the league table, Aston Villa will climb over City with a victory on Saturday at Villa Park.

Unai Emery's team have also had significantly more success than City in their Champions League campaign, where they are fifth in the standings with two games left in the league phase while City are languishing in 22nd.

"I'm not surprised. Top, excellent manager. (They had good success) qualifying for the Champions League and the results in the Champions League they speak for themselves," Guardiola said. "They are handling it well because when I have been in many clubs handling both competitions, they have done really well."

City lost 1-0 at Villa Park just over a year ago before rebounding to thrash Emery's side 4-1 in early-April. Guardiola said, however, there was little he could glean from those games.

"Why do you have to compare what happened?" the Spaniard said. "The past is the past, this is a new moment, you have to deal with it."



Title: Pakistan outplay South Africa to earn 81-run ODI win at Newlands

South Africa's batters faltered as Pakistan claimed regular wickets

Cricket - T20 World Cup - Semi Final - South Africa v Afghanistan - Brian Lara Stadium, Tarouba, Trinidad and Tobago - Jun 26, 2024 South Africa's Anrich Nortje in action REUTERS/Ash Allen/File Photo

Shaheen Shah Afridi produced a spell of high-quality seam bowling as Pakistan claimed their One-Day International series against South Africa with a game to spare following a comprehensive 81-run victory at Newlands on Thursday.

Pakistan have an unassailable 2-0 lead ahead of the third and final fixture in Johannesburg on Sunday.

South Africa surprisingly sent the visitors into bat on a ground where it is known to be difficult to chase under lights, and Pakistan posted an above-par 329 all out.

Heinrich Klaasen provided the only real resistance for South Africa with an excellent 97 from 74 balls but was the last man out as they were dismissed for 248 in 43.1 overs, having been outplayed in all facets of the game.

Captain Mohammad Rizwan scored 80 from 82 balls to anchor the Pakistan innings, but the impetus for their total came from a superb 63 from 32 deliveries by Kamran Ghulam.

Babar Azam provided 73 in 95 deliveries with the visitors profiting from some sloppy South African fielding as they dropped numerous catches and were not accurate enough with the ball.

Debutant fast bowler Kwena Maphaka, 18, returned figures of 4-72 in his 10 overs, the pick of a disappointing bowling effort from South Africa.

Several of the home side’s batters got starts but Pakistan picked up wickets at regular intervals and Klaasen ran out of partners in the chase.

Afridi showed superb control and recorded figures of 4-47 as he ripped through the South African middle order, removing the dangerous David Miller for 29 to take the game away from the home side.



Title: Barcelona unhappy with recent run but will fight to the end, says Flick

They lead LaLiga with 38 points, ahead of Atletico and Real

Football - Champions League - Borussia Dortmund v FC Barcelona - Signal Iduna Park, Dortmund, Germany - Dec 11, 2024 FC Barcelona coach Hansi Flick reacts REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay

Barcelona will battle until the end to win titles, according to head coach Hansi Flick, who said he was unhappy with their current situation as they look to avoid a third consecutive home defeat in LaLiga when they host Atletico Madrid on Saturday.

After a superb start to the season which saw them win 14 of their first 16 matches across all competitions, Barcelona lost their way domestically with Sunday's 1-0 home defeat to 15th-placed Leganes leaving them with one victory in their last six league games.

But they remain top of the LaLiga table with 38 points, level with second-placed Atletico and one point ahead of Real Madrid in third, with both their title rivals having a game in hand.

To make matters worse for the Catalan side, Atletico have been in terrific form ahead of the highly-anticipated clash at the Lluis Companys Olympic Stadium, having won their last 11 matches in all competitions.

"What I can feel in the city and the supporters know what the team is like. We lost five important players. (Attacking midfielder) Dani Olmo and (forward) Pau Victor are the (new) signings. The team has improved and is focused," Flick told reporters on Friday.

"We are not happy with the situation, but we are going to fight until the end of the season. We want to win titles, but we know it won't be easy. But we want to win, that's what we want to do tomorrow."

The German said there will be little room for error if they are to win against Atletico, but they were ready for the occasion.

"It's the end of the year. It's a great game. It's one of the best rivals. But today is Dec. 20 and we're first in LaLiga and second in the Champions League. We are not bad. We lost some points against Las Palmas (2-1 loss) and Leganes, we have to recover them," Flick added.

"Tomorrow is another game. We have a young team and we have to fight and improve. We want to achieve great things. But we know it won't be easy. We have to start fighting tomorrow. We are playing against great teams."

Barcelona have suffered a blow with winger Lamine Yamal suffering an ankle injury during their loss against Leganes. The 17-year-old Spain international is expected to be out for three to four weeks.

"We have to accept that he is injured and won't be able to play," Flick said.



Title: U-19 Women's Asia Cup: Bangladesh breeze past Nepal to set up final clash with India

The Tigresses beat Nepal by 9 wickets in Kuala Lumpur

Bangladesh have trounced Nepal by 9 wickets to secure a berth in the final of the Under-19 Women’s Asia Cup.

On Friday, the young Tigresses bounced back in style from their earlier loss to India in the Super Four stage opener in Kuala Lumpur.

In a rain-curtailed 11-over game, Nepal managed just 54 runs, which Bangladesh chased down comfortably in 9.5 overs.

Bangladesh will face India in the final on Sunday at the same venue.

After winning the toss, Bangladesh opted to field and immediately put pressure on Nepal. A combination of tight bowling and poor running between the wickets left Nepal struggling. Three of their first four wickets were run-outs within the first six overs.

Nepal's highest partnership was a 19-run stand between captain Puja Mahato and Sabitri Dhami for the second wicket. Dhami, the only batter to reach double figures, scored 11 off 12 balls.

Farjana Easmin, Anisa Akter, Fahomida Choya, and Habiba Islam chipped in with a wicket apiece for Bangladesh.

Chasing a modest target, openers Fahomida and Mosammat Eva got the Tigresses off to a flying start. Fahmida struck boundaries in consecutive overs, while Eva hit the only six of the match in the fifth over.

The opening partnership of 46 runs ended in the eighth over when Eva was bowled by Kusum Godar for 18 off 21 balls. However, Fahomida guided her team across the finish line with an unbeaten 26 off 32 balls, alongside Sumaiya Akhter, who added 10 runs off six balls.

Fahomida was named Player of the Match for her all-round performance.

Match Summary:

Nepal U-19: 54/8 in 11 overs (Dhami 11, Mahato 9; Farzana 1/13, Anisa 1/10, Fahomida 1/14, Habiba 1/11)

Bangladesh U-19: 58/1 in 9.5 overs (Fahomida 26*, Eva 18, Sumaiya 10*)

Result: Bangladesh won by 9 wickets.

Player of the Match: Fahomida Choya



Title: Bangladesh crush West Indies by 80 runs to complete T20 series sweep

After setting a daunting target of 190, the visitors bundle out the Caribbean side for 109 runs to win the third T20

Bangladesh have romped to a resounding 80-run win in the third and final T20 match against the West Indies to sweep the series 3-0. This is Bangladesh's biggest win in T20Is against the Caribbean side.

The Tigers had only achieved whitewashes in T20 series twice before: against England at home last year and against Ireland away in 2012.

However, this victory carries extra significance. Coming on the heels of a disappointing ODI series whitewash, and achieved without key players like regular captain Najmul Hossain Shanto, Towhid Hridoy, and Mustafizur Rahman, the triumph marks a memorable end to a challenging year for Bangladesh cricket.

The match in St Vincent on Friday morning Bangladesh time saw Parvez Hossain Emon returning to the side and giving the team a solid start with the bat. Jaker Ali then stole the show with a blistering knock, helping the visitors post a commanding total of 189 runs in their 20 overs.

In reply, the West Indies collapsed for just 109 runs to hand a remarkable victory to Bangladesh.

Jaker lit up the match with a breathtaking 72* off just 41 balls, smashing six sixes and displaying incredible skill, power, and match awareness. Earlier in the tour, he impressed with two brilliant Test innings and solid ODI performances. He capped off the T20 series by dismantling the West Indies bowlers with ease.

Once Jaker set the tone, the Bangladeshi bowlers completed the job with minimal fuss. Rishad Hossain, who has had an outstanding year, posted his career-best figures of 3 wickets for 21 runs. Taskin Ahmed, Mahedi Hasan, and Hasan Mahmud also bowled with precision and rhythm to put the squeeze on one of the most dangerous teams in cricket's shortest format.

DOMINANT START

After winning toss and electing to bat, Bangladesh dominated from the get-go in Kingstown. Parvez, stepping in for the injured Soumya Sarkar, began with a classy boundary and soon showcased his power hitting. Alongside skipper Litton Das, he put up a brisk opening stand of 40 runs in the first four overs.

However, Litton’s promising start, highlighted by three elegant boundaries, ended in disappointment as he was dismissed for a run-a-ball 13. Parvez followed soon after, falling for a quickfire 39 off 20 balls, including four boundaries and two sixes.

The momentum slowed after Tanzid Hasan’s brief cameo, where he struck a six before being dismissed. The Tigers managed only 36 runs between the fifth and 10th overs. Mehidy Hasan Miraz attempted to hit the accelerator, scoring a handy 29 off 22 balls, but his innings ended prematurely.

Then came Jaker's moment. Starting cautiously with just 10 runs off 13 balls, he switched gears in the 14th over with a slog-swept six off Gudakesh Motie. Surviving a near run-out, Jaker took complete control, dominating the West Indies bowlers. His range of shots cleared every part of the ground—long-on, mid-wicket, and extra cover.

Despite quick dismissals of Shamim Hossain (2) and Mahedi (0), Jaker continued the onslaught. In the last five overs, he smashed five sixes and two boundaries, including a colossal 95-metre six off Obed McCoy. He brought up his fifty in style with a boundary off Alzarri Joseph and finished the innings by hammering three sixes in a 25-run final over as Bangladesh ended with a commanding total of 189 for 6.

CLINICAL BOWLING DISPLAY

Defending the target, Bangladesh struck early. Taskin bowled an outswinger followed by an inswinger to trap Brandon King leg-before for a duck in the first over.

Mahedi then dismissed debutant Justin Greaves in the second over. While Johnson Charles and Nicholas Pooran counterattacked briefly, adding 34 runs in three overs, Bangladesh hit back quickly. Mahedi dismissed Pooran (15 off 10) for the third time in the series, and Hasan Mahmud kept Roston Chase scoreless. Rishad’s brilliant direct hit ran out Charles (18 off 23), and soon after, he dismissed Rovman Powell with the ball.

The West Indies collapsed, losing four wickets for just 14 runs, leaving them teetering at 60/6. Romario Shepherd tried to rescue his side with a spirited 33 off 27 balls, but his efforts only helped the hosts cross 100 as Bangladesh cruised to a comprehensive victory.

Brief Score:

Bangladesh: 189/7 in 20 overs (Litton 14, Parvez 39, Tanzid 9, Miraz 29, Jaker 72* (41 balls, 6 sixes), Shamim 2, Mahedi 0, Tanzim 17, Rishad 0*; Shepherd 4-0-30-2, Joseph 4-0-59-1, Chase 4-0-15-1, Motie 3-0-30-1)

West Indies: 109 in 16.4 overs (King 0, Charles 23, Greaves 6, Pooran 15, Chase 0, Powell 2, Shepherd 33, Akeal 31, Motie 12, Joseph 1, McCoy 5, Seales 4*; Rishad 4-0-21-3, Taskin 3.4-0-30-2, Mahedi 3-0-13-2, Hasan 3-0-9-1, Tanzim 3-0-31-1)

Result: Bangladesh won by 80 runs

Series result: Bangladesh won the 3-match series 3-0

Player of the Match: Jaker Ali

Player of the Series: Mahedi Hasan



Title: Argentina still best in the world, says FIFA

They keep top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year

Copa America 2024 - Final - Argentina v Colombia - Hard Rock Stadium, Miami, Florida, United States - Jul 15, 2024 Argentina's Lionel Messi lifts the trophy as he celebrates with teammates after winning Copa America 2024 REUTERS/Agustin Marcarian

Reigning world champions Argentina have kept top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year, with no changes in the top 10 of the latest list published on Thursday.

Lionel Scaloni's Argentina, who were crowned Copa America champions for a record 16th time after they beat Colombia in July, continue to lead the way ahead of second-placed France and Euro 2024 winners Spain in third.

Euro runners-up England, Brazil, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and Germany were next in the top 10.

Angola were the biggest mover of the year, climbing 32 places to finish 85th.



