Category: https://bdnews24.com/business

Title: Bangladesh ready to push startups, business initiatives for youth, says CA Yunus

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor says

The D-8 governments can convene candid, result-oriented conversations involving youth communities on startups, business and finance to carve out new platforms amongst them and Bangladesh is ready to take such initiatives forward, says Muhammad Yunus, chief advisor to the interim government.

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor said as he addressed the 11th Summit of the D-8 Countries in Egypt’s Cairo on Thursday.

The D-8 members met at a time when the world was witnessing unprecedented challenges, Yunus said.

“Yet, so many opportunities beckon us as well.”

He said the theme of the summit, focusing on youth and the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), aptly resonated with shared aspirations. He also congratulated President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt on his election.

Youth today are quickly embracing technology and innovation in everything, he said.

Often, they show uncanny imagination in tacking intractable climatic stress on-the-field, the chief advisor said.

He noted that agriculture and food were changing, economies were secured and wealth was created within societies with little outside inputs.

“I see how amazingly capable and competitive the SMEs are,” he said. “In the D-8 countries, collectively we possess enough wealth, even in private philanthropy, to stand by these scores of SMEs. With our modest support, we can shape a virtuous ‘cycle of good’, for them and our people. We need to let money flow to them, through de-risking finance, for instance.”

The D-8 countries have to re-invent ‘learning’ to make room for their boys and girls to become leaders of the economy, Yunus said.

The countries had great heritage, wisdom and accomplishments which could be blended and built using that foundation, he noted.

“We are yet to take fuller advantage of the digital revolution that has been with us for years. Now that AI is here, let us think if we can leapfrog and catch up with the disruptions, to the advantage of our entrepreneurial boys and girls,” Yunus said.

As a way forward, the chief advisor proposed two specific courses of action

Firstly, to build and deepen functional, impact-driven connections between the D-8 countries’ universities and equivalent knowledge institutions, particularly focused on preparing boys and girls for an entrepreneurial purpose other than its own sake.

“Our aim should be to generate knowledge output that can produce global secure business and industry from leaders of D8 countries in the fiercely competitive global marketplace, with our niche. If this asks to re-look at the D-8 trade and investment frameworks afresh, we should do so,” the chief advisor said.

Secondly, to think of a cooperative learning agenda that can complement the national undertakings now that basic AI-based tools and applications are accessible, he said.

For years, the D-8 countries tried to impart basic education and skills to millions in their countries through conventional in-person institutional architecture, which was often an increasingly daunting task.

“To reach ‘scale’, we tried through distance learning, for instance. We need to think deeper as to how to skill millions of young adults in a workplace where right attitudes – values – ethics matter as much as hard skills. And, then we also confront the challenge to re-skill many millions at different vocational streams, on a continuous basis,” the chief advisor said.



Title: Adani, under bribery scrutiny, pressed by Bangladesh to reopen power deal

The interim government accuses Adani Power of withholding tax benefits central to the deal

FILE PHOTO: The logo of the Adani Group is seen on the facade of one of its buildings on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, Apr 13, 2021. REUTERS/Amit Dave/File Photo/File Photo

Bangladesh's interim government has accused energy supplier Adani Power of breaching a multi-billion-dollar agreement by withholding tax benefits that a power plant central to the deal received from New Delhi, according to documents seen by Reuters.

In 2017, the Indian company controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani signed an agreement with Bangladesh to provide power from its coal-fired plant in eastern India. Dhaka has said it hopes to renegotiate the deal, which was awarded by then-Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina without a tender process and costs Bangladesh far more than its other coal power deals, according to Bangladesh power agency documents and letters between the two parties reviewed by Reuters, as well as interviews with six Bangladesh officials.

Dhaka has been behind on payments to Adani Power since supply started in July 2023. It owes several hundred million dollars for energy that has already been supplied, though the two sides dispute the exact size of the bill.

Bangladesh's de facto power minister Muhammad Fouzul Kabir Khan told Reuters the country now had enough domestic capacity to cope without the Adani supply, though not all domestic power generators were operational.

Nobel peace prize laureate Muhammad Yunus took power in August after a student-led revolution ousted Hasina, who critics accuse of stifling democracy and mismanaging the economy. She ran Bangladesh for most of the last two decades and was a close ally of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Reuters is reporting for the first time that the contract came with an additional implementation agreement that addressed the transfer of tax benefits. The news agency is also revealing details about Bangladesh's plan to reopen the 25-year deal, and that it hopes to use the fallout from U.S. prosecutors' November indictment of Adani and seven other executives for their alleged role in a $265 million bribery scheme to press for a resolution.

Adani Power has not been accused of wrongdoing in Bangladesh. A company spokesperson said in response to Reuters' questions that it had upheld all contractual obligations and had no indication Dhaka was reviewing the contract. The company did not answer questions about the tax benefits and other issues raised by Bangladesh.

Adani Group has called the US allegations "baseless."

TAX EXEMPTIONS

Adani Power's Godda plant runs off imported coal and was built to serve Bangladesh.

The company said the Bangladesh deal helped further Indian foreign policy objectives and Delhi in 2019 declared the plant part of a special economic zone. It enjoys incentives such as exemptions on income tax and other levies.

The power supplier was required to inform Bangladesh swiftly of changes in the plant's tax status and to pass on the "benefit of a tax exemption" from India's government, according to the contract and implementation agreement signed on Nov. 5, 2017 between Adani Power and the state-run Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB).

But Adani Power did not do so, according to letters sent by BPDB on Sept 17, 2024 and Oct 22, 2024 that urged it to remit the benefits.

The agreements and letters are not public but were seen by Reuters.

Two BPDB officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to talk to the media, said they did not receive responses.

BPDB estimates savings of roughly 0.35 cents per unit of power if the benefit was passed on, the officials said. The Godda plant supplied 8.16 billion units in the year to June 30, 2024, according to an undated Bangladesh government summary of power purchases seen by Reuters, suggesting potential savings of about $28.6 million.

Power minister Khan said the savings would be a key part of future discussions with Adani Power.

'NEGOTIATED HASTILY'

Bangladesh in November scrapped a 2010 law that allowed Hasina to award some energy deals without a competitive bidding process.

The absence of tenders is unusual, said Tim Buckley, director of Australia's Climate Energy Finance think-tank, adding that auctions ensure "the best price possible."

In September, Yunus's government appointed a panel of experts to examine major energy deals signed by Hasina. A Bangladesh court has separately ordered a probe of the Adani deal.

Another panel asked to study the economy said in a white paper submitted to Yunus on Dec 1 that the US charges against Adani meant Bangladesh should "scrutinise" the power deal, which it described as "negotiated hastily."

Hasina, who has not been seen in public since she fled to India, could not be reached. Her son and adviser Sajeeb Wazed told Reuters he was not aware of the Adani Power deal but that he was "sure there was no corruption."

"I can only assume the Indian government lobbied for this deal so it was made," he said in response to allegations of political interference.

Modi's office and other Indian officials did not respond to requests for comment.

HARDBALL

On Oct 31, Adani Power halved the power supply from Godda in response to the payment dispute with Bangladesh.

The company in a Jul 1 letter seen by Reuters also rejected a request from BPDB to extend a discount it had offered until May - resulting in savings of about $13 million for Bangladesh. It said it would not consider further discounts until payment was cleared.

Adani Power contends it is owed $900 million, while BPDB says arrears are about $650 million. Bangladesh suffers from a dollar shortage and BPBD officials told Reuters they haven't been able to obtain sufficient foreign currency for payment.

The halving of supply particularly angered Bangladesh, BPDB Chair Md Rezaul Karim said, because it came after Dhaka in October remitted $97 million to Adani Power - its highest monthly payment this year.

The dispute revolves around how power tariffs are calculated, with the 2017 agreement pricing off an average of two indices.

The unit cost of energy from Godda was 55% above the average of all Indian power sold to Dhaka, according to the summary of Bangladesh's power purchases.

Bangladesh is pressing for Adani Power to use other benchmarks that would lower the tariff after one of the indices was revised last year, said three BPDB sources.

Adani Power has rejected that, one of them said, adding the two sides were meeting soon.

The agreements stipulate that arbitration be carried out in Singapore, but Khan said Bangladesh's next move depended on the outcome of the court-ordered investigation.

"If it is proven that bribery or irregularities had happened, then we will have to follow the court order if any cancellation happens," he said.



Title: Stocks dive after Fed cuts rates, signals slower easing pace in 2025

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025

Traders work on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, US, December 10, 2024. REUTERS

US stocks plunged on Wednesday, with all three major indexes posting their biggest daily decline in months, after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point but disappointed some investors with projections that signaled a more cautious path of easing next year.

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025 given the solid labour market and the recent stall in lowering inflation.

"If you look at the changes to the statement of economic projection, they really had no choice," said Ellen Hazen, chief market strategist at FL Putnam Investment Management in Wellesley, Massachusetts.

"So as you look at all the changes that they made, it's very clear that the economy is running a lot hotter than their previous projection. And that has got to contribute to their desire to potentially pause."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1,123.03 points, or 2.58%, to 42,326.87, the S&P 500 lost 178.45 points, or 2.95%, to 5,872.16 and the Nasdaq Composite lost 716.37 points, or 3.56%, to 19,392.69.

The Dow suffered its 10th straight session of declines, its longest streak of daily losses since an 11-session skid in October 1974.

The Dow and S&P saw their biggest one-day percentage decline since Aug. 5 and the Nasdaq saw its biggest daily decline since July 24.

The small cap Russell 2000 dropped 4.4%, its biggest drop since June 16, 2022. Small cap stocks are seen as more likely to benefit from a lower interest rate environment.

Despite the declines, the Dow is up nearly 12.3% on the year, while the S&P has rallied about 23% and the Nasdaq has shot up more than 29%, lifted largely by technology companies and enthusiasm around artificial intelligence, along with prospects of a lower rate environment and more recently, the hope of deregulation policies from President-elect Donald Trump's incoming administration.

However, investors are also wary that some of Trump's expected policies, such as tariffs, could rekindle higher inflation.

The CBOE Volatility Index - an options-based gauge of investor expectations for near-term stock market gyrations - jumped 11.75 points to close at a four-month high of 27.62.

US Treasury yields moved higher after the statement as the benchmark US 10-year note touched its highest level since May 31 at 4.518%.

"You've got the 10-year creeping back up, around that 4.5% and particularly the 5% level that's been a real problem for equity markets," said Ross Mayfield, investment strategist at Baird in Louisville, Kentucky.

"Probably the most obvious headwind or point of contention for markets in the first quarter of next year is whether the markets interpret the policies on the table as inflationary and, or, pro-growth, both things are embedded in the 10-year."

Markets were pricing in expectations the Fed will hold rates steady at its January meeting, while factoring in about 33 basis points (bps) in cuts for 2025, down from 49 bps immediately after the Fed statement.

Higher interest rates are usually seen as a drag to the equity market, boosting the appeal of less risky assets while crimping the ability of companies to grow earnings.

Each of the 11 major S&P 500 sectors were lower, with real estate, down 4%, and consumer discretionary leading declines, off 4.7%.

Cryptocurrency related stocks fell, with losses accelerating after Powell said the central bank is not allowed to own bitcoin and is not seeking a law change in order to do so. There has been speculation Trump's incoming administration might seek to build a government owned stock of the asset. Microstrategy tumbled 9.5%, MARA Holdings plunged 12.2% and Riot Platforms fell 14.5%.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 9.489-to-1 ratio on the NYSE, and by a 5.46-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.

The S&P 500 posted six new 52-week highs and 27 new lows, while the Nasdaq Composite recorded 80 new highs and 264 new lows.

Volume on US exchanges was 18.59 billion shares, compared with the 14.36 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days.



Title: Business influence on soybean oil prices leaves finance advisor helpless

He calls market conditions complex and difficult to control

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has come to realise just how powerful businesses are as he deals with the soybean oil market.

Referring to the insufficient supply of soybean oil in the market despite price increases, he said the market realities are "quite complex" and breaking them is "quite challenging".

A week ago, the price of soybean oil was raised by Tk 8 per litre, bringing the price to Tk 175.

However, there have been continued reports of insufficient supply despite the price increase.

"The problem is that there's a gap between our price determination and the actual market reality. For instance, when the price went up by Tk 8, there was plenty of supply the following day. After the price hike, businesses have expectations that further increases will follow," the advisor told journalists after a meeting of the Advisors Council Committee on Government Purchase at the Secretariat on Wednesday.

He also pointed out the limitations of market monitoring, saying it is impractical for the National Consumer Rights Protection Directorate to monitor every location, citing his visit to Pabna where the situation remained the same.

Salehuddin stressed that if the public becomes more aware and reports complaints, proper action will be taken.

"If anyone charges excessively, consumers should speak out," he said.

Salehuddin added, "People here have a higher tolerance and just buy the goods. But consumers abroad are much more aware and protest when prices rise. I am not asking for protests, but at least for everyone to speak up.”

When asked about the strength of business syndicates, the finance advisor said: “Definitely. It’s not just syndicates; the businesses involved are very powerful. There are large traders, medium-sized ones, and those who import directly and supply goods, as well as those who act as agents, only supplying goods or issuing DOs [Delivery Orders].”

“It’s a complex system, and breaking it is difficult.”

When asked why raids were limited to the retail sector and not extended to wholesalers and mills, the finance advisor explained: “Raiding everywhere at once could worsen the artificial crisis. We aim to balance the market by ensuring businesses can operate while preventing excessive profiteering. At the same time, we want producers to receive fair prices for their costs. Achieving this balance will take time.”



Title: Eastern Bank honours 30 partners at Digital Excellence Summit 2024

The event celebrates the contributions of key partners to the bank’s digital journey

Eastern Bank hounors 30 partners at EBL Digital Excellence Summit 2024 held at BICC on 17 Dec 17, 2024.

Eastern Bank Limited, or EBL, has recognised 30 partner companies for their remarkable contributions to the development of its digital services and solutions.

The awards were presented under three categories—Partners in Progress, Excellence in Business, and Enablers of Excellence—during a gala ceremony at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre, or BICC, in Dhaka on Dec 17.

The ceremony brought together key partners, merchants, and industry leaders to celebrate collective achievements in digital transformation.

The bank’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Ali Reza Iftekhar highlighted the importance of collaboration, saying: “This award reflects our strong commitment to collaboration, innovation, and excellence.”

“Together, we are setting new standards in the digital financial services landscape and paving the way for a more inclusive and prosperous future for Bangladesh.”

M Khorshed Anowar, deputy managing director and head of Retail and SME Banking at EBL, delivered the keynote speech on "Current Scenario of Digital Inclusion in Bangladesh and Future Prospects of Digital Payments."

Ahsan Ullah Chowdhury, head of Digital Financial Services at EBL, offered a vote of thanks.



Title: India's gold imports to plunge in December after record November

Lower imports by India, the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, could cap a rally in global prices that hit a record high in October

Gold rings are seen at a jewellery shop in the old quarters of Delhi, India, May 24, 2023. REUTERS

India's gold imports are poised for a sharp slowdown in December following record purchases in November, in the absence of any major festival and as rebounding prices prompt buyers to delay purchases, trade and government officials said.

Lower imports by India, the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, could cap a rally in global prices that hit a record high in October. The drop in imports could also help India narrow its trade deficit and support the ailing rupee.

"Last month, imports shot up thanks to strong demand for investment and jewellery," Prithviraj Kothari, president of the India Bullion and Jewellers Association (IBJA), said.

"But now, things are cooling off, and imports are slowing down. We might see a drop of over 50% in December."

Gold imports more than doubled in November compared to the previous month, reaching a record $14.8 billion, which widened the trade deficit to a record level and pushed the rupee to an all-time low.

Many potential buyers had been waiting for gold prices to drop and rushed to make purchases as soon as prices corrected in November, said a Mumbai-based dealer with a private bullion importing bank.

Local prices declined to 73,300 rupees ($863) per 10 grams in mid-November after hitting a record high of 79,775 rupees in October.

Prices have rebounded in December, which is discouraging buyers and will likely lead to imports falling sharply to around $5 billion, the dealer said.

"So far this month, we have received fewer gold consignments for clearing compared to last month," said a customs official, who declined to be named.

Weak demand prompted Indian dealers this week to offer a discount of up to $8 an ounce over official domestic prices – inclusive of 6% import and 3% sales levies. Last month, they were charging a premium of up to $16.

In November, investment demand was robust as bullion was offering better returns than the stock market, IBJA's Kothari said.

India's NSE Nifty 50 share index fell to 23,263.15 points in November, down 11% from a record high hit on Sept 27.

Gold imports in November were also driven by festive season demand, as jewellers aimed to replenish stocks following the festivals of Dussehra and Diwali, said Amit Modak, chief executive of PN Gadgil & Sons, a jeweller.

……

Caption:

Keywords:



Title: Adani deal under bribery scrutiny was approved against officials' advice

US prosecutors allege that defendants bribed Andhra official $228 million for Adani deal

Rotors of power-generating windmill turbines of Adani Green Energy are kept for transportation in a stockyard at Ahmedabad-Narayan Sarovar state highway near Nakhatrana village in the western state of Gujarat, India, Nov 29, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

The approach from the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) on Sept 15, 2021 came out of the blue. The federal agency, tasked with developing the solar sector, wanted to know if the southeastern state of Andhra Pradesh would like to sign India's largest renewables contract.

Two years earlier, Andhra Pradesh's energy regulator had said in a 10-year forecast the state had no short-term need for solar power, and should focus on other renewables that could provide 24-hour energy.

But just a day after SECI approached the state government, the 26-member state cabinet led by Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy gave the deal its preliminary approval, according to cabinet records seen by Reuters.

While SECI's Sept 15 letter did not name the energy supplier, it was publicly known at the time that the federal agency had only contracted with two suppliers, the larger of which was controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani, according to past statements from the two companies.

By Nov 11, the state government had secured the nod from the energy regulator. On Dec 1, state authorities signed a procurement agreement with SECI for the deal, which could eventually be worth over $490 million annually.

As much as 97 percent of that will go to Adani Green, the renewables unit of the billionaire's Adani Group conglomerate, according to documents related to the agreement, reviewed by Reuters.

The news agency spoke to a former state power regulator and an energy legal expert who said the 57 days between SECI's approach to the state government and regulatory approval from the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) for the 7,000 megawatt deal was unusually fast, although timeframes for such deals can vary.

The solar deal is now under scrutiny by US prosecutors, who indicted Adani and seven other executives in November for alleged involvement in a bribery and securities fraud scheme involving several Indian states and one territory.

US prosecutors allege that $228 million was offered to an unnamed Andhra Pradesh official by the defendants to direct the state's electricity distribution companies to purchase the solar power supplied to SECI by Adani Green.

Reuters reviewed 19 state government documents, many of them previously unreported, and interviewed more than two dozen state and federal officials about the deal, as well as independent energy and legal professionals. Most of the people spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter.

Together they provide a picture of how political leaders overruled advice from finance and energy officials in order to approve the massive Adani deal. Some officials have publicly described the contract as likely to strain the state's coffers, potentially leaving taxpayers on the hook for thousands of megawatts of energy that Andhra Pradesh does not need.

Adani Green did not respond to Reuters' questions about the alleged corruption nor the speed of the approval process. Adani Group has previously called the allegations "baseless."

SECI told Reuters in a statement it was up to states and their regulators to decide how much power to purchase. It declined to answer other questions.

The office of Reddy, who was not named in the US indictment and lost power in an election this year, referred Reuters to a Nov 28 statement in which he denied being bribed and justified the deal on grounds it provided free power to farmers. Reddy's office declined to answer other questions.

APERC, which regulates the state's power sector and was responsible for due diligence on the deal, did not respond to repeated requests for comment on its processes and the US allegations.

The current state government also did not respond to requests for comment.

DUE DILIGENCE

For most of Sept 15, 2021 then-energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy was unaware of any potential solar deal, he told Reuters.

But late that night, he received a call from a person in his office, whom he did not identify, about a proposal that required his signature for discussion in cabinet the next day, said Srinivasa Reddy, who joined a rival party this year.

"Never before" had he been so rushed to approve files, he said, and he was not given "details or time to study the matter."

Srinivasa Reddy said he signed off after being assured by a senior official at his department, whom he also did not identify, that the contracting party was SECI. He said he had "no idea the supplier was Adani."

Srikant Nagulapalli, who declined to comment, was then the top civil servant in Srinivasa Reddy's department. Reuters could not establish if Reddy consulted him or if he provided assurances about the deal.

The next day, cabinet approved the deal "in principle," according to minutes from the cabinet meeting, allowing the regulatory process to be fast-tracked.

On Oct 21, the Andhra Pradesh Power Coordination Committee (APPCC) - which had been tasked with studying the deal after the preliminary approval - filed a report recommending the deal.

The committee was established by the state government to coordinate between state-owned distribution companies; its members include the state's top energy official and company executives.

Seven days later, the Andhra Pradesh cabinet officially committed to procuring 7,000 megawatts from SECI.

In doing so, it overrode advice from officials at the finance and energy departments that the contract did not represent good value.

On Oct 28 - the same day as the cabinet meeting that approved the deal but before the greenlight was given - the finance department made a submission to the cabinet stating there was an industry trend of falling solar prices and that future agreements would likely be cheaper, according to cabinet minutes.

It said Andhra Pradesh had leverage because the government was the buyer, offering the supplier security that a default would be unlikely.

The treasury also questioned the duration of the 25-year contract, especially since supply was scheduled to start only in 2024, according to the minutes. The treasury said it believed costs could continue to fall in the period between agreeing the contract and power being supplied.

The energy department endorsed the treasury's advice.

The records of the cabinet deliberations do not document any discussion about the finance and energy departments' concerns beyond a statement in the minutes that the cabinet was "duly overruling the finance remark."

Andhra Pradesh will pay 2.49 rupees per kilowatt-hour when the solar power comes online, according to the agreement.

An Adani Green spokesperson told Reuters that supply would be delayed beyond 2024, citing delays in "grid availability."

However, an analysis released by the office of Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu - who ousted Reddy's government in elections this year - found the state would likely have to pay more, because the contract did not account for certain taxes and duties that are typically included in such calculations.

A state official familiar with the matter said Andhra Pradesh is likely to pay as much as 23 percent over the price it agreed in the Adani contract once the taxes and duties are included.

Andhra Pradesh is now seeking to suspend the deal due to the indictment of Gautam Adani. A decision could come by year-end, an official told Reuters.

If the Adani deal goes ahead, the state treasury will be directly on the hook for solar bills running hundreds of millions of dollars annually, according to Reuters' review of contract documents. Annual payments to Adani once the power supply is fully operational will be roughly equal to state spending on social security and nutrition programmes for the previous fiscal year.



Title: India's economy ends 2024 with solid momentum as business growth hits four-month high

Asia's third-largest economy grew a softer 5.4% last quarter, but easing inflation is expected to spur demand among private sector firms

Employees assemble an electric transformer inside a manufacturing unit of Inductotherm (India) Private Limited at Sanand GIDC (Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation), on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, March 28, 2024. REUTERS

India's private sector output grew at the fastest pace in four months, preliminary readings from a survey showed, helping the economy end 2024 on a positive note underpinned by sturdier demand in services and manufacturing and record jobs growth.

Asia's third-largest economy grew a softer 5.4% last quarter, but easing inflation is expected to spur demand among private sector firms, improving the outlook for next year.

Monday's HSBC's December flash India Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), compiled by S&P Global, rose to 60.7 this month - matching August's reading - after dropping to 58.6 in November.

The 50-level separates growth from contraction and the business activity index has been above 60 in all but three months this year. Such strength hasn't been seen since 2008 when the global financial crisis hit, suggesting strong private sector expansion.

"The small rise in the headline manufacturing PMI in December was mainly driven by gains in current production, new orders and employment," said Ines Lam, economist at HSBC.

"The expansion in new domestic orders quickened, suggesting a pick-up in growth momentum in the economy."

A stronger rise in demand was mainly reflected in the PMI for the dominant services sector, which rose to a four-month high of 60.8 from 58.4 in November, while the index for manufacturing was 57.4, up from 56.5 last month.

Service providers led the rise in sales with the new business sub-index touching the highest since January. Improving international demand for goods and services also boosted sales with the former recording a faster increase than the latter.

That improved the business outlook for 2025 and overall optimism rose to its highest since September last year and prompted companies to ramp up hiring additional staff at the fastest pace since the survey began in late 2005.

Both manufacturing and services posted a new peak for employment generation.

Inflationary pressures eased in December after two consecutive months of steeper rises. However, firms again increased selling prices albeit at a slower pace than November's near 12-year high.

That will provide some relief to newly appointed Reserve Bank of India Governor Sanjay Malhotra after consumer inflation came in lower than expected at 5.48% last month with economists betting on a rate cut in February 2025, a Reuters poll found.



Title: Trump transition team plans sweeping rollback of Biden EV, emissions policies

The proposals aim to boost US production and redirect funds to national defence

EVgo fast electric vehicle chargers are shown charging a Chevy Bolt in Encintas, California, US,October 17, 2023. REUTERS

Incoming US President Donald Trump’s transition team is recommending sweeping changes to cut off support for electric vehicles and charging stations and to strengthen measures blocking cars, components and battery materials from China, according to a document seen by Reuters.

The recommendations, which have not been previously reported, come as the U.S. electric-vehicle transition stalls and China’s heavily subsidized EV industry continues to surge, in part because of its superior battery supply chain. On the campaign trail, Trump vowed to ease regulations on fossil-fuel cars and roll back what he called President Joe Biden’s EV mandate.

The transition team also recommends imposing tariffs on all battery materials globally, a bid to boost U.S. production, and then negotiating individual exemptions with allies, the document shows.

Taken together, the recommendations are a stark departure from Biden administration policy, which sought to balance encouraging a domestic battery supply chain, separate from China, with a rapid EV transition. The transition-team plan would redirect money now flowing to building charging stations and making EVs affordable into national-defence priorities, including securing China-free supplies of batteries and the critical minerals to build them.

The proposals came from a Trump transition team charged with crafting a strategy for swift implementation of new automotive policies. The team also calls for eliminating the Biden administration’s $7,500 tax credit for consumer EV purchases, a plan that Reuters first reported last month. The policies could strike a blow to US EV sales and production at a time when many legacy automakers, including General Motors and Hyundai, have recently introduced a wider array of electric offerings to the US market.

Cutting government EV support could also hurt sales of Elon Musk’s Tesla, the dominant US EV seller. But Musk, who spent more than a quarter-billion dollars helping to elect Trump, has said that losing subsidies would hurt rivals more than Tesla.

The transition team calls for clawing back whatever funds remain from Biden’s $7.5 billion plan to build charging stations and shifting the money to battery-minerals processing and the "national defence supply chain and critical infrastructure.”

While batteries, minerals and other EV components are “critical to defense production,” electric vehicles “and charging stations are not,” the document says.

The Defense Department in recent years has highlighted US strategic vulnerabilities because of China’s dominance of the mining and refining of critical minerals, including graphite and lithium needed for batteries, and rare-earth metals used in both EV motors and military aircraft.

A 2021 government report said the US military faces “escalating power requirements” for weapons and communication equipment, among other technologies. “Assured sources of critical minerals and materials” are “critical to US national security,” the report found.

Trump transition spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said voters gave Trump a mandate to deliver on campaign promises, including stopping government attacks on gas-powered cars.

"When he takes office, President Trump will support the auto industry, allowing space for both gas-powered cars and electric vehicles," Leavitt said in a statement.

ALLOWING MORE TAILPIPE POLLUTION

Automakers globally have been shifting toward electric vehicles in part to comply with stricter government limits on climate-damaging tailpipe pollution.

But the transition team recommendations would allow automakers to produce more gas-powered vehicles by rolling back emissions and fuel-economy standards championed by the Biden administration. The transition team proposes shifting those regulations back to 2019 levels, which would allow an average of about 25% more emissions per vehicle mile than the current 2025 limits and average fuel economy to be about 15% lower.

The proposal also recommends blocking California from setting its own, stricter vehicle-emissions standards, which more than a dozen other states have adopted. Trump barred California from setting tougher requirements during his first term, a policy that Biden reversed.

California has asked the US Environmental Protection Agency for another waiver to incorporate a stronger set of requirements beginning in 2026, which would eventually require all vehicles to be electric, plug-in hybrid or hydrogen-powered by 2035. The Biden administration’s EPA has not approved California’s request.

Many of the transition-team proposals appear aimed at encouraging domestic battery production, primarily for defense-related interests. Others appear aimed at protecting automakers, even those producing EVs, in the United States.

The proposals include:

– Instituting tariffs on “EV supply chain” imports including batteries, critical minerals and charging components. The proposal viewed by Reuters said the administration should use Section 232 tariffs, which target national security threats, to limit imports of such products.

The Biden administration recently increased tariffs on Chinese imports of several mentioned in the Trump-transition document, including lithium-ion batteries, graphite and “permanent magnets” used in EV motors and military applications. Those tariffs were issued on economic rather than security grounds.

– Waiving environmental reviews to speed up “federally funded EV infrastructure projects,” including battery recycling and production, charging stations and critical mineral manufacturing.

– Expanding export restrictions on EV battery technology to adversarial nations.

– Providing support for exports of US-made EV batteries through the Export-Import Bank of the United States.

– Using tariffs as a “negotiating tool” to open foreign markets to US auto exports, including EVs.

– Eliminating requirements that federal agencies purchase EVs. A Biden policy requires all federal acquisitions of cars and smaller trucks to be zero-emission vehicles by the end of 2027.

– Ending DOD programmes aimed at purchasing or developing electric military vehicles.



Title: TikTok turns to US Supreme Court in last-ditch bid to avert ban

The emergency request is the final legal effort intended to block the law intended to force Chinese company ByteDance to divest from the app by Jan 19

TikTok made a last-ditch effort on Monday to continue operating in the United States, asking the Supreme Court to temporarily block a law intended to force ByteDance, its China-based parent company, to divest the short-video app by Jan. 19 or face a ban.

TikTok and ByteDance filed an emergency request to the justices for an injunction to halt the looming ban on the social media app used by about 170 million Americans while they appeal a lower court's ruling that upheld the law. A group of US users of the app filed a similar request on Monday as well.

Congress passed the law in April. The Justice Department has said that as a Chinese company, TikTok poses "a national-security threat of immense depth and scale" because of its access to vast amounts of data on American users, from locations to private messages, and its ability to secretly manipulate content that Americans view on the app.

The US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Washington on Dec. 6 rejected TikTok's arguments that the law violates free speech protections under the US Constitution's First Amendment.

In their filing to the Supreme Court, TikTok and ByteDance said that "if Americans, duly informed of the alleged risks of 'covert' content manipulation, choose to continue viewing content on TikTok with their eyes wide open, the First Amendment entrusts them with making that choice, free from the government's censorship."

"And if the DC Circuit's contrary holding stands, then Congress will have free rein to ban any American from speaking simply by identifying some risk that the speech is influenced by a foreign entity," they added.

The companies said that being shuttered for even one month would cause TikTok to lose about a third of its US users and undermine its ability to attract advertisers and recruit content creators and employee talent.

Calling itself one of the "most important speech platforms" used in the United States, TikTok has said that there is no imminent threat to US national security and that delaying enforcement of the law would allow the Supreme Court to consider the legality of the ban, and the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump to evaluate the law as well.

Trump, who unsuccessfully tried to ban TikTok during his first term in 2020, has reversed his stance and promised during the presidential race this year that he would try to save TikTok. Trump takes office on Jan. 20, the day after the TikTok deadline under the law.

The law would "shutter one of America's most popular speech platforms the day before a presidential inauguration," the companies said in their filing. "A federal law singling out and banning a speech platform used by half of Americans is extraordinary."

Asked on Monday at a press conference what he would do to stop a ban on TikTok, Trump said that he has "a warm spot in my heart for TikTok" and that he would "take a look" at the matter.

Trump was meeting with TikTok CEO Shou Zi Chew in Florida on Monday, a source familiar with the plans told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity. TikTok did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the meeting.

The companies asked the Supreme Court to issue a decision on its request by Jan. 6 to allow, in the event it is rejected, for the "complex task of shutting down TikTok" in the United States and to coordinate with service providers by the deadline set under the law.

The dispute comes amid growing trade tensions between China and the United States, the world's two biggest economies.

'RIGOROUS SCRUTINY'

TikTok has denied that it has or ever would share US user data, accusing US lawmakers of advancing speculative concerns.

TikTok spokesperson Michael Hughes said after the filing that "we are asking the court to do what it has traditionally done in free speech cases: apply the most rigorous scrutiny to speech bans and conclude that it violates the First Amendment."

In its ruling, the DC Circuit wrote, "The First Amendment exists to protect free speech in the United States. Here the government acted solely to protect that freedom from a foreign adversary nation and to limit that adversary's ability to gather data on people in the United States."

The law would bar providing certain services to TikTok and other foreign adversary-controlled apps including offering it through app stores such as Apple and Alphabet's Google, effectively preventing its continued US use unless ByteDance divests TikTok by the deadline.

A ban could open the door to a future US crackdown on other foreign-owned apps. In 2020, Trump tried to ban WeChat, owned by Chinese company Tencent, but was blocked by the courts.



Title: EU adopts new Russia sanctions targeting China, shadow fleet

China faces first comprehensive sanctions, including travel bans and asset freezes

European Union flags fly outside the EU Commission headquarters in Brussels, Belgium Sept 19, 2019. REUTERS/Yves Herman//File Photo

The European Union has adopted a 15th package of sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, including tougher measures against Chinese entities and more vessels from Moscow's so-called shadow fleet, the EU Commission said in a statement on Monday.

The new sanctions package adds 52 vessels from the shadow fleet that try to circumvent Western restrictions to move oil, arms and grains. It brings the total listed to 79.

The EU began adding ships earlier this year in response to an increase in the number of vessels transporting cargoes that are not regulated or insured by conventional Western providers. The listing included vessels that delivered North Korean ammunition to Russia.

The new restrictions add 84 new individuals and entities, including seven Chinese persons and entities.

"Namely one individual and two entities facilitating the circumvention of EU sanctions, and four entities supplying sensitive drone components and microelectronic components to the Russian military," the statement said, referring to the Chinese listings.

The Chinese additions will be the first fully-fledged sanctions on the country that include a travel ban and asset freeze.

"The step to fully-fledged sanctions sends an important signal to the Chinese. We take this very seriously," an EU diplomat said.

EU sanctions chief David O'Sullivan and Ukrainian officials have pointed to China as the main route for sales of foreign technology to Russia.

Diplomats said the previous Chinese listings in Russian sanctions packages only involved export controls, rather than a overarching sanction.

In addition, the list includes senior managers in Russia's energy sector, two senior North Korean officials as well as 20 Russian companies and entities in India, Iran, Serbia and the United Arab Emirates.

EU countries added some financial measures to ease the burden on EU central securities depositories, such as Belgium's Euroclear, when they handle Russia's immobilised central bank assets. Earlier this year, the Group of Seven (G7) nations agreed to use the over $300 billion in frozen funds to back a $50 billion loan for Ukraine to help it fight Russian forces.

The Commission is preparing a 16th package of sanctions for January, which may include wider measures such as on Russian liquefied natural gas and export limits on EU companies' subsidiaries in third countries, sources told Reuters.



Title: China's 'erotic clothing' capital braces for Trump and e-commerce crackdown

Potential elimination of de minimis rule threatens Chinese e-commerce exporters

Lingerie products are displayed at the Gummy Park showroom at WeMet Industrial Park, in Guanyun county of Lianyungang, Jiangsu province, China November 25, 2024. REUTERS

In an industrial park being built with Chinese state support in the middle of a sprawling farming community, factory boss Lei Congrui straightens a tiny golden bell hanging off a choker on a mannequin wearing white-and-pink lingerie.

What Lei calls his "erotic clothing" showroom is one of the few already open in WeMet Industrial Park, whose Chinese name translates as "Victoria's Secret Town" - though it has no official affiliation to the US brand.

The development of the lingerie industry in eastern Guanyun county, 180 miles (290 km) from the metropolis of Nanjing, has exploded partly due to a US tariff exemption likely to soon be curtailed or scrapped.

Under the "de minimis" rule, which seeks to reduce customs paperwork, the United States exempts foreign packages valued at $800 or under from tariffs as long as they're shipped to individuals.

It has fuelled the meteoric rise of Chinese e-commerce firms such as Shein and PDD Holdings' Temu, as well as producers like Lei selling through those platforms, while also being exploited for criminal ends, such as fentanyl trafficking.

Efforts by US  President Joe Biden to "plug the loophole" in his final days in office, and incoming President Donald Trump's campaign pledge to raise tariffs on China, are threatening investment returns and livelihoods in largely agrarian Guanyun, home to about 1 million.

The European Union and other countries are considering similar restrictions.

De minimis curbs and higher tariffs "will have a relatively large impact on us," said the pony-tailed and bespectacled Lei, whose Midnight Charm Garment Co serves clients like Shein and relies on the US for 70% of revenues.

Nomura estimates China will export $240 billion in goods benefiting from this exemption this year, accounting for 7% of its overseas sales and contributing 1.3% of gross domestic product.

It forecasts that the US eliminating the rule would reduce export growth by 1.3 percentage points and GDP growth by 0.2 points; the figures worsen significantly if Europe and Southeast Asia also remove the dispensation.

"We expect blue-collar workers from those small factories of unbranded, low value-added and labour-intensive products, to be most affected," says Nomura chief China economist Ting Lu, adding that the apparel sector was among those.

The Guanyun local government and China's commerce ministry, as well as Shein and PDD, did not reply to requests for comment. The ministry said last month "arbitrary" tariffs "won't solve America's own problems" with drugs and the economy.

There are already signs that Victoria's Secret Town, which began opening in stages from 2021, may not match the hopes of local authorities, who have invested 22 billion yuan ($3 billion). Indebted local governments like Guanyun's have often played roles in accelerating successful industries, though at the risk of sharper future downturns by spurring excess manufacturing capacity and deflationary pressures.

On a recent November day, much of the park was vacant. No date has been announced for the launch of other stages of the park, where buildings housing research, design and e-commerce logistics activities are planned.

Other industrial zones across China also face questions of systemic overinvestment.

Local governments "only think as far as they can see," ignoring the national economy, said Majid Ghorbani, associate professor at China Europe International Business School in Shanghai.

INDUSTRIAL MODEL

Lei started his business as a high school student in 2006, with his relatives helping him out in a shabby workshop about a 10-minute drive away. In 2014, he started selling overseas to escape price wars in the Chinese market.

A year later, Washington quadrupled the "de minimis" threshold from $200. His exports have almost doubled every year since. His total revenue last year was over $1.3 million, he said.

Lei said many of his friends, relatives and neighbours opened similar businesses. About 1,400 firms, employing 100,000 people, currently produce "erotic clothing" in Guanyun, he said. The figures he cited are comparable to those reported by Chinese state media.

"If you walk into any neighbourhood around here and shout 'is there anyone making sexy lingerie?', two heads would come out of almost every building," said Lei.

Local authorities were initially circumspect due to Communist Party guidelines against "vulgar" products and content, according to speeches by Guanyun Party officials transcribed by state-run media.

But they eventually embraced the industry and fed it state resources, like the industrial park, which is located next to a giant but sparsely frequented high-speed rail station.

"The county government's support for our erotic lingerie industry is very strong," Lei said. "It invested in industrial land, organises entrepreneurial training and some firms receive funding support."

Factory owners praise the park as a better place to receive customers - many of the showrooms are wholesale and only open by appointment - and store raw materials.

Lei says tariffs and e-commerce curbs would force him to accept lower sales volumes, and US consumers will need to pay more.

He's considering investing in US warehouses and switching to a bulk cargo shipping model instead of direct-to-customer shipments by air, which could lower costs. He is also searching for new clients in South America, Middle East and central Asia, where customers can also be found on platforms like Temu.

Xu Yan, founder of lingerie maker Gummy Park, sells only a third of her production overseas and is confident growth in other markets would compensate for any drop in US volumes.

When Reuters visited her showroom, a model clad in a black camisole and robe was livestreaming for potential Chinese buyers.

"The United States is just one country. The world has more than 8 billion people," Xu said.

How such firms deal with the looming setback is crucial for Guanyun residents. Their average annual disposable income exceeded 21,000 yuan in 2022, up sharply from about 5,000 yuan in 2008, the latest government figures show.

At Midnight Charm's factory near the industrial park, sewing worker Zhang Lan Lan earns up to 7,000 yuan a month, on par with many working in China's booming electric vehicle sector. At its nearby warehouse, 72-year-old Zhou earns up to 3,000 yuan monthly, packaging products in the warehouse with other seniors.

A factory job means Zhang can live with her children instead of moving to a city for work. For Zhou, it means she's not home alone during the day.

Above all, it's better than working the land, said Zhou, who only gave her surname. "People these days have it easier."



Title: $5 billion flows out of Bangladesh for medical treatment each year, says governor

He highlights a significant gap in data management that hinders national growth

Governor Ahsan H Mansur has said around $5 billion leaves Bangladesh every year for medical treatment abroad, but the exact use of these funds remains unknown.

Speaking at a workshop on data-related issues on Sunday, he pointed out that the lack of a proper data storage policy in Bangladesh hinders the country's growth and development.

"There's no policy in place for data storage in Bangladesh. Domestic cloud services have yet to make significant progress," Mansur said.

He warned that without proper data management systems, sectors such as healthcare, tourism, and the economy would struggle to unlock their full potential.

The workshop, titled “Cross-Border Data Flow: Bangladesh Context”, was organised by the Policy Research Institute, or PRI, at a hotel in Dhaka.

The event was part of a World Bank-backed project aimed at improving cross-border data flow among Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka.

The governor highlighted that a large sum is spent annually on medical treatment abroad by Bangladeshis, but the specific usage of these funds is largely unknown.

“Some people travel abroad on tourist visas to seek medical treatment,” he said.

Mansur emphasised that in today's world, data has become more valuable than natural resources such as coal and oil.

He said, "Bangladesh, with a population of 170 million, generates a huge amount of data, from mobile systems, small and medium industries, to the tourism sector. However, this data is not being utilised, meaning we are missing out on its value.”

The governor also stressed the importance of improving data-sharing practices in the healthcare sector, saying a lack of access to big data hampers effective research and decision-making.

“If we had access to this data, we could better understand which decisions are most effective,” he said.

Mansur further discussed the need for improvements in data management infrastructure, legal frameworks, and behavioural change to foster progress in this field.

“If we can make progress in database development, data mining, and storage, we will see significant improvements.”

Mansur said information exchange is almost non-existent in Bangladesh.

Each person keeps their data to themselves, and even within our own systems, data is not exchanged,” he added.

The governor concluded by saying, "We need to work legally; the government must take action in this regard. If we do not align local policies accordingly, the use of data will remain ineffective."

PRI chief Jayedi Sattar, who also presented at the event, said: "South Asian countries are among the least connected in terms of data exchange. Political boundaries have become an economic constraint.

“There are more opportunities to boost economic activity within our region, which is even more feasible in the digital world," he added.



Title: Business influence on soybean oil prices leaves finance advisor helpless

He calls market conditions complex and difficult to control

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has come to realise just how powerful businesses are as he deals with the soybean oil market.

Referring to the insufficient supply of soybean oil in the market despite price increases, he said the market realities are "quite complex" and breaking them is "quite challenging".

A week ago, the price of soybean oil was raised by Tk 8 per litre, bringing the price to Tk 175.

However, there have been continued reports of insufficient supply despite the price increase.

"The problem is that there's a gap between our price determination and the actual market reality. For instance, when the price went up by Tk 8, there was plenty of supply the following day. After the price hike, businesses have expectations that further increases will follow," the advisor told journalists after a meeting of the Advisors Council Committee on Government Purchase at the Secretariat on Wednesday.

He also pointed out the limitations of market monitoring, saying it is impractical for the National Consumer Rights Protection Directorate to monitor every location, citing his visit to Pabna where the situation remained the same.

Salehuddin stressed that if the public becomes more aware and reports complaints, proper action will be taken.

"If anyone charges excessively, consumers should speak out," he said.

Salehuddin added, "People here have a higher tolerance and just buy the goods. But consumers abroad are much more aware and protest when prices rise. I am not asking for protests, but at least for everyone to speak up.”

When asked about the strength of business syndicates, the finance advisor said: “Definitely. It’s not just syndicates; the businesses involved are very powerful. There are large traders, medium-sized ones, and those who import directly and supply goods, as well as those who act as agents, only supplying goods or issuing DOs [Delivery Orders].”

“It’s a complex system, and breaking it is difficult.”

When asked why raids were limited to the retail sector and not extended to wholesalers and mills, the finance advisor explained: “Raiding everywhere at once could worsen the artificial crisis. We aim to balance the market by ensuring businesses can operate while preventing excessive profiteering. At the same time, we want producers to receive fair prices for their costs. Achieving this balance will take time.”



Title: Adani, under bribery scrutiny, pressed by Bangladesh to reopen power deal

The interim government accuses Adani Power of withholding tax benefits central to the deal

FILE PHOTO: The logo of the Adani Group is seen on the facade of one of its buildings on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, Apr 13, 2021. REUTERS/Amit Dave/File Photo/File Photo

Bangladesh's interim government has accused energy supplier Adani Power of breaching a multi-billion-dollar agreement by withholding tax benefits that a power plant central to the deal received from New Delhi, according to documents seen by Reuters.

In 2017, the Indian company controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani signed an agreement with Bangladesh to provide power from its coal-fired plant in eastern India. Dhaka has said it hopes to renegotiate the deal, which was awarded by then-Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina without a tender process and costs Bangladesh far more than its other coal power deals, according to Bangladesh power agency documents and letters between the two parties reviewed by Reuters, as well as interviews with six Bangladesh officials.

Dhaka has been behind on payments to Adani Power since supply started in July 2023. It owes several hundred million dollars for energy that has already been supplied, though the two sides dispute the exact size of the bill.

Bangladesh's de facto power minister Muhammad Fouzul Kabir Khan told Reuters the country now had enough domestic capacity to cope without the Adani supply, though not all domestic power generators were operational.

Nobel peace prize laureate Muhammad Yunus took power in August after a student-led revolution ousted Hasina, who critics accuse of stifling democracy and mismanaging the economy. She ran Bangladesh for most of the last two decades and was a close ally of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Reuters is reporting for the first time that the contract came with an additional implementation agreement that addressed the transfer of tax benefits. The news agency is also revealing details about Bangladesh's plan to reopen the 25-year deal, and that it hopes to use the fallout from U.S. prosecutors' November indictment of Adani and seven other executives for their alleged role in a $265 million bribery scheme to press for a resolution.

Adani Power has not been accused of wrongdoing in Bangladesh. A company spokesperson said in response to Reuters' questions that it had upheld all contractual obligations and had no indication Dhaka was reviewing the contract. The company did not answer questions about the tax benefits and other issues raised by Bangladesh.

Adani Group has called the US allegations "baseless."

TAX EXEMPTIONS

Adani Power's Godda plant runs off imported coal and was built to serve Bangladesh.

The company said the Bangladesh deal helped further Indian foreign policy objectives and Delhi in 2019 declared the plant part of a special economic zone. It enjoys incentives such as exemptions on income tax and other levies.

The power supplier was required to inform Bangladesh swiftly of changes in the plant's tax status and to pass on the "benefit of a tax exemption" from India's government, according to the contract and implementation agreement signed on Nov. 5, 2017 between Adani Power and the state-run Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB).

But Adani Power did not do so, according to letters sent by BPDB on Sept 17, 2024 and Oct 22, 2024 that urged it to remit the benefits.

The agreements and letters are not public but were seen by Reuters.

Two BPDB officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to talk to the media, said they did not receive responses.

BPDB estimates savings of roughly 0.35 cents per unit of power if the benefit was passed on, the officials said. The Godda plant supplied 8.16 billion units in the year to June 30, 2024, according to an undated Bangladesh government summary of power purchases seen by Reuters, suggesting potential savings of about $28.6 million.

Power minister Khan said the savings would be a key part of future discussions with Adani Power.

'NEGOTIATED HASTILY'

Bangladesh in November scrapped a 2010 law that allowed Hasina to award some energy deals without a competitive bidding process.

The absence of tenders is unusual, said Tim Buckley, director of Australia's Climate Energy Finance think-tank, adding that auctions ensure "the best price possible."

In September, Yunus's government appointed a panel of experts to examine major energy deals signed by Hasina. A Bangladesh court has separately ordered a probe of the Adani deal.

Another panel asked to study the economy said in a white paper submitted to Yunus on Dec 1 that the US charges against Adani meant Bangladesh should "scrutinise" the power deal, which it described as "negotiated hastily."

Hasina, who has not been seen in public since she fled to India, could not be reached. Her son and adviser Sajeeb Wazed told Reuters he was not aware of the Adani Power deal but that he was "sure there was no corruption."

"I can only assume the Indian government lobbied for this deal so it was made," he said in response to allegations of political interference.

Modi's office and other Indian officials did not respond to requests for comment.

HARDBALL

On Oct 31, Adani Power halved the power supply from Godda in response to the payment dispute with Bangladesh.

The company in a Jul 1 letter seen by Reuters also rejected a request from BPDB to extend a discount it had offered until May - resulting in savings of about $13 million for Bangladesh. It said it would not consider further discounts until payment was cleared.

Adani Power contends it is owed $900 million, while BPDB says arrears are about $650 million. Bangladesh suffers from a dollar shortage and BPBD officials told Reuters they haven't been able to obtain sufficient foreign currency for payment.

The halving of supply particularly angered Bangladesh, BPDB Chair Md Rezaul Karim said, because it came after Dhaka in October remitted $97 million to Adani Power - its highest monthly payment this year.

The dispute revolves around how power tariffs are calculated, with the 2017 agreement pricing off an average of two indices.

The unit cost of energy from Godda was 55% above the average of all Indian power sold to Dhaka, according to the summary of Bangladesh's power purchases.

Bangladesh is pressing for Adani Power to use other benchmarks that would lower the tariff after one of the indices was revised last year, said three BPDB sources.

Adani Power has rejected that, one of them said, adding the two sides were meeting soon.

The agreements stipulate that arbitration be carried out in Singapore, but Khan said Bangladesh's next move depended on the outcome of the court-ordered investigation.

"If it is proven that bribery or irregularities had happened, then we will have to follow the court order if any cancellation happens," he said.



Title: Eastern Bank honours 30 partners at Digital Excellence Summit 2024

The event celebrates the contributions of key partners to the bank’s digital journey

Eastern Bank hounors 30 partners at EBL Digital Excellence Summit 2024 held at BICC on 17 Dec 17, 2024.

Eastern Bank Limited, or EBL, has recognised 30 partner companies for their remarkable contributions to the development of its digital services and solutions.

The awards were presented under three categories—Partners in Progress, Excellence in Business, and Enablers of Excellence—during a gala ceremony at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre, or BICC, in Dhaka on Dec 17.

The ceremony brought together key partners, merchants, and industry leaders to celebrate collective achievements in digital transformation.

The bank’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Ali Reza Iftekhar highlighted the importance of collaboration, saying: “This award reflects our strong commitment to collaboration, innovation, and excellence.”

“Together, we are setting new standards in the digital financial services landscape and paving the way for a more inclusive and prosperous future for Bangladesh.”

M Khorshed Anowar, deputy managing director and head of Retail and SME Banking at EBL, delivered the keynote speech on "Current Scenario of Digital Inclusion in Bangladesh and Future Prospects of Digital Payments."

Ahsan Ullah Chowdhury, head of Digital Financial Services at EBL, offered a vote of thanks.



Title: Stocks dive after Fed cuts rates, signals slower easing pace in 2025

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025

Traders work on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, US, December 10, 2024. REUTERS

US stocks plunged on Wednesday, with all three major indexes posting their biggest daily decline in months, after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point but disappointed some investors with projections that signaled a more cautious path of easing next year.

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025 given the solid labour market and the recent stall in lowering inflation.

"If you look at the changes to the statement of economic projection, they really had no choice," said Ellen Hazen, chief market strategist at FL Putnam Investment Management in Wellesley, Massachusetts.

"So as you look at all the changes that they made, it's very clear that the economy is running a lot hotter than their previous projection. And that has got to contribute to their desire to potentially pause."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1,123.03 points, or 2.58%, to 42,326.87, the S&P 500 lost 178.45 points, or 2.95%, to 5,872.16 and the Nasdaq Composite lost 716.37 points, or 3.56%, to 19,392.69.

The Dow suffered its 10th straight session of declines, its longest streak of daily losses since an 11-session skid in October 1974.

The Dow and S&P saw their biggest one-day percentage decline since Aug. 5 and the Nasdaq saw its biggest daily decline since July 24.

The small cap Russell 2000 dropped 4.4%, its biggest drop since June 16, 2022. Small cap stocks are seen as more likely to benefit from a lower interest rate environment.

Despite the declines, the Dow is up nearly 12.3% on the year, while the S&P has rallied about 23% and the Nasdaq has shot up more than 29%, lifted largely by technology companies and enthusiasm around artificial intelligence, along with prospects of a lower rate environment and more recently, the hope of deregulation policies from President-elect Donald Trump's incoming administration.

However, investors are also wary that some of Trump's expected policies, such as tariffs, could rekindle higher inflation.

The CBOE Volatility Index - an options-based gauge of investor expectations for near-term stock market gyrations - jumped 11.75 points to close at a four-month high of 27.62.

US Treasury yields moved higher after the statement as the benchmark US 10-year note touched its highest level since May 31 at 4.518%.

"You've got the 10-year creeping back up, around that 4.5% and particularly the 5% level that's been a real problem for equity markets," said Ross Mayfield, investment strategist at Baird in Louisville, Kentucky.

"Probably the most obvious headwind or point of contention for markets in the first quarter of next year is whether the markets interpret the policies on the table as inflationary and, or, pro-growth, both things are embedded in the 10-year."

Markets were pricing in expectations the Fed will hold rates steady at its January meeting, while factoring in about 33 basis points (bps) in cuts for 2025, down from 49 bps immediately after the Fed statement.

Higher interest rates are usually seen as a drag to the equity market, boosting the appeal of less risky assets while crimping the ability of companies to grow earnings.

Each of the 11 major S&P 500 sectors were lower, with real estate, down 4%, and consumer discretionary leading declines, off 4.7%.

Cryptocurrency related stocks fell, with losses accelerating after Powell said the central bank is not allowed to own bitcoin and is not seeking a law change in order to do so. There has been speculation Trump's incoming administration might seek to build a government owned stock of the asset. Microstrategy tumbled 9.5%, MARA Holdings plunged 12.2% and Riot Platforms fell 14.5%.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 9.489-to-1 ratio on the NYSE, and by a 5.46-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.

The S&P 500 posted six new 52-week highs and 27 new lows, while the Nasdaq Composite recorded 80 new highs and 264 new lows.

Volume on US exchanges was 18.59 billion shares, compared with the 14.36 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days.



Title: Mayotte cyclone kills several hundred, maybe thousands, in worst storm in century

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital

A view shows damage caused by the Cyclone Chido, in Kaweni, Mayotte, France in this screengrab from a social media video, obtained by Reuters on December 14, 2024. @foulani2.00 via TikTok via REUTERS

Several hundred people and possibly even thousands may have been killed when the most powerful cyclone in nearly a century hit the French Indian Ocean archipelago of Mayotte, a senior local French official said on Sunday.

"I think there will certainly be several hundreds, maybe we will reach a thousand, even several thousands," prefect Francois-Xavier Bieuville said on local media channel Mayotte La 1ere.

Asked about the death toll from Cyclone Chido, the French interior ministry said "it will be difficult to account for all victims" and a figure could not be determined at this stage.

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital. It was the strongest storm in more than 90 years to hit the islands, the forecaster said.

"Honestly, what we are experiencing is a tragedy, you feel like you are in the aftermath of a nuclear war… I saw an entire neighborhood disappear," Mohamed Ishmael, a resident of Mayotte's capital Mamoudzou, told Reuters by phone.

Aerial footage shared by the French gendarmerie showed the wreckage of hundreds of makeshift houses strewn across the hills of one of Mayotte's islands, which have been a focal point for illegal immigration from nearby Comoros.

Local media images showed a mother pushing a newborn baby's crib along the flooded corridor of Mayotte's hospital. Capsized police boats lay onshore while coconut trees had crashed through the roofs of many buildings.

"My thoughts are with our compatriots in Mayotte, who have gone through the most horrific few hours, and who have, for some, lost everything, lost their lives," French President Emmanuel Macron said.

In the last few decades thousands of people have attempted to make the crossing from Comoros, off the coast of East Africa, to Mayotte, which has a higher standard of living and access to the French welfare system.

Over 100,000 undocumented migrants live in Mayotte, according to the French interior ministry.

It was difficult to ascertain the precise death toll after the cyclone, which also raised concerns about access to food, water and sanitation, authorities said.

"For the toll, it's going to be complicated, because Mayotte is a Muslim land where the dead are buried within 24 hours," a French interior ministry official said earlier.

Located nearly 8,000 km (5,000 miles) from Paris, Mayotte is significantly poorer than the rest of France and has grappled with gang violence and social unrest for decades.

More than three-quarters of the people in Mayotte live below the French poverty line. Tensions were stoked earlier this year by a water shortage.

An air bridge was being put in place from Reunion island, another French overseas territory on the other side of Madagascar, the government said.

The disaster is the first challenge faced by Prime Minister Francois Bayrou, days after he was named by Macron following the collapse of the previous government.

The cyclone went on to hit northern Mozambique on Sunday, but the full extent of the impact was not clear. Internet monitor NetBlocks said on X that heavy rain and winds had damaged power and telecommunications infrastructure.

In Comoros, two people were slightly injured, 24 displaced, and 21 homes were destroyed, authorities said.

France colonised Mayotte in 1843 and annexed the whole archipelago, including Comoros, in 1904.

In a 1974 referendum, 95% backed separation but 63% on Mayotte voted to stay French. Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli declared independence in 1975. Mayotte is still ruled from Paris.



Title: Monarch butterfly may gain threatened species status in US

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade

A monarch butterfly flutters in a field of marigolds, the traditional flower believed to guide the dead back to their loved ones, grown for use during Day of the Dead celebrations, in Boquillas, Mexico Oct 20, 2024. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril

The US Fish and Wildlife Service proposed listing the monarch butterfly as a threatened species on Tuesday, citing a significant decline in the iconic black and orange insects that has pushed them toward extinction.

WHY IT'S IMPORTANT

Monarch butterflies, known for migrating thousands of miles (km) across North America, have experienced a decades-long U.S. population decline due to habitat loss caused by human activities such as farming and urban development, widespread use of pesticides and climate change.

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade.

KEY QUOTE

"The iconic monarch butterfly is cherished across North America, captivating children and adults throughout its fascinating lifecycle," US FWS Director Martha Williams said in a statement.

"Despite its fragility, it is remarkably resilient, like many things in nature when we just give them a chance. Science shows that the monarch needs that chance, and this proposed listing invites and builds on unprecedented public participation in shaping monarch conservation efforts," she added

CONTEXT

Despite being recognised as needing federal protection under the Endangered Species Act four years ago, the monarch butterfly waited behind dozens of other species facing more immediate threats.

The ESA, signed into law in 1973, is credited with helping to save the bald eagle, California condor and numerous other animals and plants from extinction. ESA protection makes it illegal to kill or harm species classified as threatened or endangered without a special permit.

BY THE NUMBERS

The eastern migratory monarch population has declined by about 80% since the 1980s, while the western migratory population has dropped by more than 95%. The declines put the western populations at greater than 99% chance of extinction by 2080, according to the FWS.

The agency is proposing to designate 4,395 acres (1,780 hectares) in California as "critical habitat" for the butterflies. Federal agencies are prohibited from destroying or modifying areas with that designation.

WHAT'S NEXT

The public will have until March 12, 2025 to comment on the proposal to list the monarch butterfly. The service will then evaluate the comments and any additional information on the species to determine whether to list the monarch butterfly.



Title: Govt advises people with health issues to stay indoors as air pollution rises

Environment ministry urges mask use for those venturing outside amid alarming air quality

The air quality in Dhaka and its surrounding areas has fluctuated between "unhealthy" and "hazardous," prompting the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to advise individuals at risk to avoid going outside unless necessary.

The ministry recommended using masks for anyone needing to step outdoors in these conditions in a statement on Tuesday.

Citizens were also urged to monitor the environment department’s website for regular updates and take appropriate precautions.

Data from international air quality monitoring platform IQAir showed that Dhaka’s Air Quality Index, or AQI, stood at 193 at 6pm on Tuesday, categorised as "unhealthy."

At that time, Dhaka ranked second among cities with the worst air quality globally.

The AQI worsened after 10pm, remaining above 200—sometimes even exceeding 300—through to the following afternoon.

Air quality levels depend on the concentration of fine particulate matter, such as PM10 and PM2.5, measured in micrograms per cubic metre.

Other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-level ozone also contribute to the AQI.

An AQI score of 51-100 is considered "moderate" or "acceptable."

Scores between 101-150 are "unhealthy for sensitive groups."

Scores between 151-200 indicate "unhealthy" air.

Scores of 201-300 represent "very unhealthy" conditions.

Anything above 300 is deemed "hazardous" or "disastrous."

According to the environment department’s AQI data, Dhaka's air quality has mostly remained above 150 since Oct 12, except for 12 days when it dropped below this level.

During this 59-day period, the AQI exceeded 200 on 13 days.

Last Thursday, Dhaka's AQI hit 335.

To combat air pollution, the environment ministry has issued directives to halt the burning of solid waste, install covers and enclosures at construction sites, transport construction materials under covers, spray water at least twice daily around such sites, and bar the use of old or smoke-producing vehicles on the roads.

Brick kiln operators, factory owners, and the public have also been urged to comply with these measures.

The ministry emphasised that tackling air pollution requires collaborative efforts from the government and citizens.



Title: Extreme heat puts garment factory workers at risk, study shows

The study report urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves

Garment workers come out of a factory during the lunch break as factories remain open despite a countrywide lockdown, in Dhaka, Bangladesh, July 6, 2021. REUTERS

Workers in some of the world's biggest garment manufacturing hubs in Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Pakistan are increasingly exposed to extreme heat as climate change pushes temperatures up, a report found on Sunday, a problem multinational retailers and brands will have to help address.

New European Union regulations make retailers selling in the bloc, like Inditex, H&M and Nike, legally liable for conditions at their suppliers, putting pressure on them to help fund improvements to cool factories they source from.

In Dhaka, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh and Karachi, the number of days with "wet-bulb" temperatures - a measurement that accounts for air temperature as well as humidity - above 30.5 degrees Celsius jumped by 42% in 2020-2024 compared to 2005-2009, researchers at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute found.

Above that threshold, the International Labor Organisation recommends as much rest as work in any given hour to maintain safe core body temperature levels.

The report identified only three retailers - Nike, Levi's, and VF Corp - which specifically include protocols to protect workers from heat exhaustion in their supplier codes of conduct.

COMPANIES WARNED

"We've been talking to brands for ages now about this issue, and they're only now starting to turn their attention to it," Jason Judd, executive director at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute, told Reuters.

"If a brand or retailer knows that temperatures in a production area are excessively high or doing damage to worker health, then they're obligated under this new set of rules to do something about it," he added.

The EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive came into force in July and will start applying to large companies from mid-2027.

Fixes to cool factories could include better ventilation and water evaporative cooling systems, instead of energy-intensive and expensive air conditioning that would increase manufacturers' carbon emissions.

Some factory owners would likely be willing to make such investments themselves, given how heat stress significantly impacts productivity, Judd said, but the EU rules highlight brands' responsibility to address the issue too.

The report also urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves.

Extreme heat and flooding could erase $65 billion in apparel export earnings from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Pakistan and Vietnam by 2030, research from asset manager Schroders and the Global Labor Institute found last year.



Title: 2024 will be the hottest year on record, EU scientists say

The data comes two weeks after a $300bn deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient

This year will be the world's warmest since records began, with extraordinarily high temperatures expected to persist into at least the first few months of 2025, European Union scientists said on Monday.

The data from the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) comes two weeks after UN climate talks yielded a $300-billion deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient to cover the soaring cost of climate-related disasters.

C3S said data from January to November had confirmed 2024 is now certain to be the hottest year on record, and the first in which average global temperatures exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period.

The previous hottest year on record was 2023.

Extreme weather has swept around the world in 2024, with severe drought hitting Italy and South America, fatal floods in Nepal, Sudan and Europe, heatwaves in Mexico, Mali and Saudi Arabia that killed thousands, and disastrous cyclones in the US and the Philippines.

Scientific studies have confirmed the fingerprints of human-caused climate change on all of these disasters.

Last month ranked as the second-warmest November on record after November 2023.

"We're still in near-record-high territory for global temperatures, and that's likely to stay at least for the next few months," Copernicus climate researcher Julien Nicolas told Reuters.

Carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels are the main cause of climate change.

Cutting emissions to net zero - as many governments have pledged to eventually do - will stop global warming from getting worse. Yet despite these green pledges, global CO2 emissions are set to hit a record high this year.

Scientists are also monitoring whether the La Nina weather pattern - which involves the cooling of ocean surface temperatures - could form in 2025.

That could briefly cool global temperatures, though it would not halt the long-term underlying trend of warming caused by emissions. The world is currently in neutral conditions, after El Nino - La Nina's hotter counterpart - ended earlier this year.

"While 2025 might be slightly cooler than 2024, if a La Nina event develops, this does not mean temperatures will be 'safe' or 'normal'," said Friederike Otto, a senior lecturer at Imperial College London.

"We will still experience high temperatures, resulting in dangerous heatwaves, droughts, wildfires and tropical cyclones."

C3S' records go back to 1940, and are cross-checked with global temperature records going back to 1850.



Title: World Court to open climate change hearings

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant

People walk through water at a flooded area affected by rising sea levels and land subsidence in North Jakarta, Indonesia, Nov 20, 2024. REUTERS/Willy Kurniawan

The United Nations' top court on Monday starts hearings on the legal obligation of countries to fight climate change and the consequences for states of contributing to global warming, the outcome of which could influence litigation worldwide.

Vanuatu, one of the small island states that spearheaded the effort to get the International Court of Justice to give a so-called advisory opinion, will be the first of over a hundred states and international organisations to give their views in two weeks of proceedings starting at 10am (0900 GMT).

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant. Experts say the court's eventual opinion on climate change will likely be cited in climate change-driven lawsuits in courts from Europe to Latin America and beyond.

The hearings begin a week after developing nations denounced as woefully inadequate an agreement reached at the COP29 summit for countries to provide $300 billion in annual climate finance by 2035 to help poorer nations cope with climate change.

Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu's special envoy for climate change and the environment, said it was imperative fossil fuels be phased out and more money provided to poorer nations bearing the brunt of climate change, such as his Pacific island nation.

"We would like cumulative historical emissions that cause significant harm to the climate system to be declared unlawful," Regenvanu told Reuters.

Aside from small island states and numerous Western and developing countries, the court will also hear from the world's top two emitters of greenhouse gases, the United States and China. Oil producer group OPEC will also give its views.

The hearings will run until Dec 13. The court's opinion is expected to be delivered in 2025.



