Category: world

Title: Zelensky says Ukraine's membership of NATO is 'achievable'

Ukraine has repeatedly urged NATO to invite Kyiv to become a member

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks as he attends a European Union leaders summit in Brussels, Belgium, Dec 19, 2024. REUTERS/Johanna Geron

Ukraine's membership of NATO is "achievable", but Kyiv will have to fight to persuade allies to make it happen, President Volodymyr Zelensky told Ukrainian diplomats in a speech on Sunday.

Ukraine has repeatedly urged NATO to invite Kyiv to become a member. The Western military alliance has said Ukraine will join its ranks one day but has not set a date or issued an invitation.

Moscow has cited the prospect of Ukraine joining NATO as one of the principal justifications for its 2022 invasion. Kyiv says membership in the Western alliance's mutual defence pact, or an equivalent form of security guarantee, would be crucial to any peace plan to ensure that Russia does not attack again.

"We all understand that Ukraine's invitation to NATO and membership in the alliance can only be a political decision," Zelenskiy told diplomats at a gathering in Kyiv. "Alliance for Ukraine is achievable, but it is achievable only if we fight for this decision at all the necessary levels."

Zelensky said allies needed to know what Ukraine can bring to NATO and how its membership in the alliance would stabilise global relations.

Last week Zelenskiy urged European countries to provide guarantees to protect Ukraine after the war with Russia ends and said Ukraine would ultimately need more protection through membership of the alliance.



Title: Suspect in German Christmas market attack held on murder charges

The suspect, a 50-year-old Saudi psychiatrist, has anti-Islamic history

Plush toys, candles and floral tributes lie near the site where a car drove into a crowd at a Magdeburg Christmas market in Magdeburg, Germany Dec 21, 2024. REUTERS/Christian Mang

A man suspected of ploughing a car through crowds at a German Christmas market in an attack that killed five people and injured scores faces multiple charges of murder and attempted murder, police said on Sunday.

Friday evening's attack in the central city of Magdeburg shocked the country and stirred up tensions over the charged issue of immigration.

The suspect, who was in custody, is a 50-year-old psychiatrist from Saudi Arabia with a history of anti-Islamic rhetoric who has lived in Germany for almost two decades. The motive for the attack remained unclear.

There were scuffles and some "minor disturbances" at a far-right demonstration attended by around 2,100 people on Saturday night in Magdeburg, police said. They added that criminal proceedings would follow, but did not give details.

Protesters, some wearing black balaclavas, held up a large banner with the word "remigration", a term popular with supporters of the far right who seek the mass deportation of immigrants and people deemed not ethnically German.

Other residents gathered to pay their respects to the dead.

A magistrate ordered the suspect, identified in German media as Taleb A, into pretrial custody on charges of murder on five counts as well as multiple counts of attempted murder and grievous bodily harm, police said in a statement.

Reuters could not immediately ascertain if the suspect had a lawyer.

Those killed were a nine-year-old boy and four women aged 52, 45, 75 and 67, the police statement said. Among the wounded, around 40 had serious or critical injuries.

Authorities said the suspected attacker used emergency exit points to drive onto the grounds of the Christmas market, where he picked up speed and ploughed into the crowds, hitting more than 200 people in a three-minute attack. He was arrested at the scene.

German authorities have not named the suspect and German media reports have given his name only as Taleb A in keeping with local privacy laws.

MOTIVE UNCLEAR

As authorities investigated a possible motive, the Magdeburg prosecutor, Horst Nopens, said on Saturday that one possible factor could be what he called the suspect's frustration with Germany's handling of Saudi refugees.

The suspect had been strongly critical of Islam in the past and had appeared in a number of media interviews in 2019 reporting on his work helping Saudi Arabians who had turned their back on Islam to flee to Europe.

He had also voiced support on social media platform X for the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party and for US billionaire Elon Musk, who has backed the AfD.

The AfD has strong support in the former East Germany where Magdeburg is located. Opinion polls put it in second place nationally ahead of elections in February.

Its members, including the candidate for chancellor Alice Weidel, planned a rally in Magdeburg on Monday evening.

Saudi Arabia had repeatedly flagged to Germany concerns over posts on the suspect's social media, according to a Saudi source and a German security source.

The Christian Democrats, Germany's main opposition party, and the Free Democrats, who were part of the coalition government until its collapse last month, called for improvements to Germany's security apparatus, including better coordination between federal and state authorities.

"The background must be clarified. But above all, we must do more to prevent such offences, especially as there were obviously specific warnings and tips in this case that were ignored," Sahra Wagenknecht, leader of the leftist BSW party, told the Welt newspaper.

The BSW, a new political party with far-left roots, has also condemned unchecked immigration and has gained considerable support ahead of the Feb 23 election.

Chancellor Olaf Scholz, whose Social Democrats are trailing in opinion polls, attended a service for victims in Magdeburg's Cathedral on Saturday.



Title: Gaza medics struggle to rescue patients after Israel orders hospital evacuated

Photos show patients crammed into corridors, away from windows for safety

Palestinians inspect the damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house, amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Deir Al-Balah, in the central Gaza Strip, Dec 22, 2024. REUTERS/Ramadan Abed

Israel ordered the closure and evacuation on Sunday of one of the last hospitals still partly functioning in a besieged area on the northern edge of the Gaza Strip, forcing medics to search for a way to bring hundreds of patients and staff to safety.

The head of the Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya, Husam Abu Safiya, told Reuters via text message that obeying the order to shut down was "next to impossible" because there were not enough ambulances to get patients out.

"We currently have nearly 400 civilians inside the hospital, including babies in the neonatal unit, whose lives depend on oxygen and incubators. We cannot evacuate these patients safely without assistance, equipment, and time," said Abu Safiya.

"We are sending this message under heavy bombardment and direct targeting of the fuel tanks, which if hit will cause a large explosion and mass casualties of the civilians inside," he said.

Photos from inside the hospital showed patients on beds crammed into corridors to keep them away from windows. Reuters could not immediately verify those images.

The hospital is one of the only ones still even partially functioning in the once crowded northern edge of the Gaza Strip, an area under Israeli siege for nearly three months in one of the most punishing operations of the 14-month-old war.

Abu Safiya said the military had ordered patients and staff to be evacuated to another hospital where conditions are even worse. The army did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Israel says its siege of three communities on the northern edge of the Gaza Strip - Beit Lahiya, Beit Hanoun and Jabalia - is part of an operation to prevent militants from regrouping. Palestinians accuse Israel of seeking to permanently depopulate the area to create a buffer zone, which Israel denies.

The Israeli military said on Sunday forces operating in Beit Hanoun struck Hamas militants and infrastructure. The armed wings of Hamas and the allied Islamic Jihad group said they killed many Israeli soldiers.

Elsewhere, Israeli military strikes across the Gaza Strip killed at least 24 Palestinians, eight of them, including some children, at a school sheltering displaced families in Gaza City, medics said.

The Israeli military said in a statement that strike targeted Hamas militants operating from a command centre embedded inside the school. It said fighters used the place to plan and execute attacks against Israeli forces. Hamas denies its forces operate among civilians.

Medics said four Palestinians were killed when an airstrike hit a car elsewhere in Gaza City. An Israeli security official said troops had "struck a Hamas terrorist in a vehicle".

At least 12 other Palestinians were killed in airstrikes in Rafah and Khan Younis in the south of the enclave, and Nusseirat and Bureij in the central Gaza Strip, medics said.

Mediators have stepped up efforts in recent weeks to secure a ceasefire in Gaza after months when talks were frozen.

Sources close to the discussions told Reuters on Thursday that Qatar and Egypt had been able to resolve some differences between the warring parties but sticking points remained.

Israel began its assault on Gaza after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking more than 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel says about 100 hostages are still being held, but it is unclear how many are alive.

Authorities in Gaza say Israel's campaign has killed more than 45,200 Palestinians. Most of the population of 2.3 million has been displaced and much of the coastal enclave is in ruins.



Title: Syria's de facto ruler reassures minorities, meets Lebanese Druze leader

Sharaa pledges services to Sweida, emphasising Syria's rich sectarian diversity

Lebanese Druze leader Walid Jumblatt shakes hands with Syria's de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa, also known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani, after the ousting of Syria's Bashar al-Assad, in Damascus, Syria, Dec 22, 2024. REUTERS/Khalil Ashawi

Syria's de facto ruler Ahmed al-Sharaa hosted Lebanese Druze leader Walid Jumblatt on Sunday in another effort to reassure minorities they will be protected after Islamist rebels led the ouster of Bashar al-Assad two weeks ago.

Sharaa said no sects would be excluded in Syria in what he described as "a new era far removed from sectarianism".

Sharaa heads the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS), the main group that forced Assad out on Dec 8. Some Syrians and foreign powers have worried he may impose strict Islamic governance on a country with numerous minority groups such as Druze, Kurds, Christians and Alawites.

"We take pride in our culture, our religion and our Islam. Being part of the Islamic environment does not mean the exclusion of other sects. On the contrary, it is our duty to protect them," he said during the meeting with Jumblatt, in comments broadcast by Lebanese broadcaster Al Jadeed.

Jumblatt, a veteran politician and prominent Druze leader, said at the meeting that Assad's ouster should usher in new constructive relations between Lebanon and Syria. Druze are an Arab minority who practice an offshoot of Islam.

Sharaa, dressed in a suit and tie rather than the military fatigues he favoured in his rebel days, also said he would send a government delegation to the southwestern Druze city of Sweida, pledging to provide services to its community and highlighting Syria's "rich diversity of sects".

Seeking to allay worries about the future of Syria, Sharaa has hosted numerous foreign visitors in recent days, and has vowed to prioritise rebuilding Syria, devastated by 13 years of civil war.



Title: US military conducts precision airstrikes against Houthi targets in Sanaa

The strikes aim to "disrupt and degrade Houthi operations, such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels", the US military says

The US military said it conducted precision airstrikes on Saturday against a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility operated by Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen's capital, Sanaa.

In a statement, the US military's Central Command said the strikes aimed to "disrupt and degrade Houthi operations, such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea, Bab al-Mandeb, and Gulf of Aden".

The US military also said it struck multiple Houthi one-way drones and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea.

Saturday's strike followed a similar attack last week by US aircraft against a command and control facility operated by the Houthis, which control much of Yemen.

On Thursday, Israel launched strikes against ports and energy infrastructure in Houthi-held parts of Yemen and threatened more attacks against the group, which has launched hundreds of missiles at Israel over the past year.

The Iran-backed group in Yemen has been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year to try to enforce a naval blockade on Israel, saying they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians in Israel's year-long war in Gaza.



Title: Pope calls Gaza airstrikes 'cruelty' after Israeli minister's criticism

"Yesterday, children were bombed," said the pope. "This is cruelty. This is not war. I wanted to say this because it touches the heart."

Pope Francis delivers a Christmas message to Vatican workers in Paul VI Hall at the Vatican, Dec 21, 2024. REUTERS/Ciro De Luca

Pope Francis on Saturday again condemned Israeli airstrikes in Gaza, a day after an Israeli government minister publicly denounced the pontiff for suggesting the global community should study whether the military offensive there constitutes a genocide of the Palestinian people.

Francis opened his annual Christmas address to the Catholic cardinals who lead the Vatican's various departments with what appeared to be a reference to Israeli airstrikes on Friday that killed at least 25 Palestinians in Gaza.

"Yesterday, children were bombed," said the pope. "This is cruelty. This is not war. I wanted to say this because it touches the heart."

The pope, as leader of the 1.4-billion-member Roman Catholic Church, is usually careful about taking sides in conflicts, but he has recently been more outspoken about Israel's military campaign against Palestinian militant group Hamas.

In book excerpts published last month, the pontiff said some international experts said that "what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of a genocide".

Israeli Minister of Diaspora Affairs Amichai Chikli sharply criticised those comments in an unusual open letter published by Italian newspaper Il Foglio on Friday. Chikli said the pope's remarks amounted to a "trivialisation" of the term genocide.

Israel's foreign ministry said that Israel was defending itself against the cruelty exemplified by Hamas militants "hiding behind children while trying to murder Israeli children," holding 100 hostages and abusing them.

"Unfortunately, the Pope has chosen to ignore all of this," the ministry said, adding that the "death of any innocent person in a war is a tragedy."

"Israel makes extraordinary efforts to prevent harm to innocents, while Hamas makes extraordinary efforts to increase harm to Palestinian civilians," the ministry said.

Francis also said on Saturday that the Catholic bishop of Jerusalem, known as a patriarch, had tried to enter the Gaza Strip on Friday to visit Catholics there, but was denied entry.

The patriarch's office told Reuters it was not able to comment on the pope's remarks about the patriarch being denied entry.

The Israeli military said on Saturday the patriarch's entry had been approved and he would enter Gaza on Sunday, barring any major security issues. Aid from the patriarch's office entered last week, the military said.

Israel allows clerics to enter Gaza and "works in cooperation with the Christian community to make it easier for the Christian population that remains in the Gaza Strip – including coordinating its removal from the Gaza Strip to a third country," a statement from the military said.

The war began when Hamas-led Palestinian militants attacked southern Israeli communities on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people, mostly civilians, and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza, according to Israeli authorities.

Israel's retaliatory campaign, which it says is aimed at eliminating Hamas, has killed more than 45,000 people, mostly civilians, according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip. The campaign has displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins.

Israel says that at least a third of the dead have been militants and says it tries to avoid harm to civilians but is battling militants who it accuses of embedding among the population in dense urban areas. Hamas rejects this.



Title: Out-of-control Australia bushfire will burn for days, officials say

Hundreds of residents have been ordered to leave the area around Grampians National Park west of Melbourne immediately

New South Wales Rural Fire Service fire truck is seen at a hazard reduction burn site in Sydney, Australia, Sept 10, 2023. REUTERS

An uncontained bushfire raging in Australia's Victoria state that has prompted an evacuation order for hundreds of residents will burn for several days, officials said on Sunday.

The order to leave immediately, set at the highest danger rating, remained in place for the fire in and around Grampians National Park, about 241 km (149 miles) west of state capital Melbourne, Victoria's emergency services agency said on its website.

"There's a lot of unburnt fuel in the Grampians still, so it's quite a challenge for the days ahead", Country Fire Authority deputy chief officer Garry Cook told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, referring to the fire that now covered 34,000 hectares (84,000 acres) of bush.

The blaze, sparked on Tuesday by lightning, prompted authorities on Saturday to urge residents of several rural towns such as Halls Gap, population 495, to evacuate.

Hundreds of firefighters have battled the bushfire, using more than 100 tankers and 25 aircraft, ABC reported on Saturday.

Authorities have warned of a high-risk bushfire season this Australian summer after several quiet seasons. The 2019-2020 "Black Summer" fires destroyed an area the size of Turkey and killed 33 people.



Title: Suffering from heavy cold, Pope Francis to lead Sunday prayers from residence

He has suffered from influenza and related problems a number of times since the start of 2023

Pope Francis speaks during the weekly general audience, in Paul VI hall at the Vatican, Dec 18, 2024. REUTERS/Guglielmo Mangiapane

Pope Francis, who has just turned 88 and has been suffering from a heavy cold, will lead the regular Sunday Angelus prayer from inside his residence as a precaution, the Vatican said in a statement on Saturday.

The decision was taken in view of cold weather in Rome and the pope's commitments in the coming Christmas week, it added.

Francis, who has been pope since 2013, had complained about the effects of his cold during an audience on Friday, but earlier on Saturday he was well enough to deliver his annual Christmas address to cardinals.

The pope will give the Angelus on Sunday from the chapel of the Vatican's Santa Marta quarters where he lives, rather than addressing pilgrims from a window overlooking St. Peter's Square.

Francis has suffered spells of ill health in recent years. When he was 21, the then Jorge Bergoglio developed pleurisy and had part of one of his lungs removed in his native Argentina.

He has suffered from influenza and related problems a number of times since the start of 2023, cancelling a planned trip to the COP28 climate meeting in Dubai last year because of the effects of flu and lung inflammation.

He delivered the Angelus from Santa Marta last December as he recovered from that bout of flu.

The coming days are expected to be particularly intense because in addition to the regular Christmas services, the pope will also mark the start of the Holy Year or Jubilee on Christmas Eve, Dec 24.

The pope is scheduled to open the bronze door of St. Peter's Basilica, which symbolises the doorway of salvation for Catholics and is normally sealed, for the start of the Jubilee.

Such Holy Years are normally held every 25 years and this one is expected to attract millions of additional visitors to the Vatican and Rome.



Title: Yemen's Houthis say they hit Israel with ballistic missile

The Israeli military says it has launched an initial inquiry regarding the incident of a fallen missile fired from Yemen

Yemen's Houthis said on Saturday they had hit a "military target" in central Israel's Jaffa area with a ballistic missile.

The Israeli military said it has launched an "initial inquiry regarding the incident of a fallen missile fired from Yemen" and that the details were still under review.



Title: Iceland gets new government under Social Democrat Frostadottir

The new government plans to focus on bringing down inflation and interest rates

A national flag of Iceland flutters ahead of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's visit in Reykjavik, Iceland Aug 19, 2019. REUTERS/Ints Kalnins

Iceland's president presented a new government on Saturday under Social Democratic Prime Minister Kristrun Frostadottir that aims to cut inflation and interest rates and hold a referendum on European Union membership by 2027, public broadcaster RUV said.

Frostadottir's centre-left Social Democratic Alliance became the biggest party in a snap election on Nov 30, and has agreed to form a coalition government with the centrist People's Party and the left-leaning, pro-European Reform Party, RUV said.

Thorgerdur Katrin Gunnarsdottir, leader of the Reform Party, will be minister of foreign affairs, it added.

It will be the first time in Iceland that the leaders of all the governing parties will be women, and the first time that the country will have a female prime minister and a female president - Halla Tomasdottir - simultaneously, the broadcaster said.

A live stream from RUV showed the leaders of the three coalition parties hugging after they signed an agreement on forming a government.

Frostadottir, 36, will be the youngest prime minister in Icelandic history, RUV said.

The new coalition replaces a government by Bjarni Benediktsson's conservative Independence Party which came second in the election, called after coalition disagreements and public discontent over migration and energy and housing issues.

The new government plans to focus on bringing down inflation and interest rates, and aims to reduce the number of ministries by one in order to cut administrative costs, RUV reported on Saturday, citing Frostadottir.

It also plans to formulate a parliamentary resolution to put the question of EU membership to a referendum, which the governing parties said they hope will take place no later than 2027, according to RUV.

The new government also intends to set up a panel of independent experts to assess the advantages and disadvantages of retaining the Icelandic crown compared to adopting the Euro currency.



Title: More than 30 dead in Brazil bus, truck collision

The exact death toll remains uncertain due to the condition of the bodies, which were burned beyond recognition

A damaged car is crushed under a vehicle following a traffic accident after a packed bus collided with a truck, at the Fernao Dias national highway, near Teofilo Otoni, Brazil, Dec 21, 2024. Belo Horizonte Military Fire Department/­Handout via REUTERS

A packed bus collided with a truck and burst into flames early on Saturday in Brazil, killing more than 30 people, the fire department said.

After completing the removal of victims from a major highway near the town of Teofilo Otoni in Minas Gerais, the state's fire department estimated the number of fatalities between 32 and 35, including at least one child.

The exact death toll remains uncertain due to the condition of the bodies, which were burned beyond recognition.

Confirmation will likely depend on forensic work by the Civil Police, the department said in a statement.

A forensic investigation will also be required to determine the accident's cause, as differing accounts were gathered from witness testimonies, it added.

Initially, firefighters reported the bus, carrying 45 passengers, had a tire blowout, causing the driver to lose control before colliding with an oncoming truck on the BR-116 federal highway, a major route connecting Brazil's densely populated southeast to the poorer northeast.

However, witnesses also reported that a granite block the truck was transporting came loose, fell on the road and caused the collision with the bus, said the fire department.

"Only the forensic investigation will confirm the true version," it added.

The bus departed from Sao Paulo and was headed to the state of Bahia.

Firefighters said they rescued 13 passengers from the wrecked bus. Three occupants of a car that also collided and was trapped under the truck survived the accident.



Title: Eight convicted in France over murder of teacher who showed Prophet caricature

An 18-year-old Chechen assailant brutally killed him soon after he showed caricatures of the Prophet

A photograph taken on Oct 16, 2023 shows a commemorative plaque for slain teacher Samuel Paty (portrait) near the Bois d'Aulne school in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, outside Paris. BERTRAND GUAY/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo

A French court sentenced eight people to prison terms ranging from one to 16 years for their roles in a hate campaign that culminated in the murder of a teacher who had shown caricatures of the Prophet Mohammad in class, local media reported.

Days after Samuel Paty, 47, showed his pupils the caricatures in October 2020, an 18-year-old Chechen assailant stabbed and beheaded him outside his school in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, near Paris. The assailant was shot dead by police moments after.

Among those convicted on Friday was the father of a student whose false account of Paty's use of the caricatures triggered a wave of social media posts targeting the middle-school teacher.

The court sentenced Brahim Chnina to 13 years in prison for criminal terrorist association, according to broadcaster Franceinfo. Chnina had published videos falsely accusing the teacher of disciplining his daughter for complaining about the class, naming Paty and identifying his school.

Abdelhakim Sefrioui, the founder of a hardline Islamist organization, received a 15-year sentence. Both Sefrioui and Chnina were found guilty of inciting hatred against Paty.

Many Muslims consider any depiction of the Prophet Mohammad to be blasphemous. Sefrioui's lawyer said his client would appeal the decision, according to French media.

Two associates of Paty's killer, Abdullakh Anzorov, were also convicted. Naim Boudaoud and Azim Epsirkhanov were sentenced to 16 years in prison for complicity in a terrorist killing. Both had denied wrongdoing, according to Franceinfo.

Last year, a court found Chnina's daughter and five other adolescents guilty of participating in a premeditated conspiracy and helping prepare an ambush.

Chnina's daughter, who was not in Paty's class when the caricatures were shown, was convicted of making false accusations and slanderous comments.

French media reported that the 13-year-old made the allegations after her parents questioned why she had been suspended from school for two days.



Title: Pakistan dismisses US official's warning over missile programme as unfounded

The foreign ministry says strategic capabilities defend sovereignty, ensuring regional stability peacefully

Pakistani Army soldier salutes while standing on an air defence missile system during Pakistan Day military parade in Islamabad, Pakistan, Mar 23, 2022. REUTERS/Saiyna Bashir/File Photo

Pakistan's Foreign Ministry on Saturday dismissed as unfounded and "devoid of rationality" assertions by a senior US official that its missile programme could eventually pose a threat to the United States.

Earlier this week, US Deputy National Security Adviser Jon Finer said Pakistan's development of long-range ballistic missiles made it an "emerging threat".

Finer's comments, which came a day after Washington announced a new round of sanctions related to the ballistic missile programme, underscored the deterioration in once-close ties between Washington and Islamabad since the 2021 US troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Addressing Finer's remarks, Pakistan's Foreign Ministry said the perception of an alleged threat was "unfortunate".

"These allegations are unfounded, devoid of rationality and sense of history," the ministry added in a statement.

The ministry said its strategic capabilities were solely for defending its sovereignty and maintaining regional stability, and should not be perceived as a threat to any other country.

It also highlighted Pakistan's long history of cooperation with the US, particularly in counter-terrorism efforts, and reiterated its commitment to engaging constructively on all issues, including regional security and stability.

Relations between the United States and Pakistan have seen significant ups and downs. The countries collaborated during the Cold War and in the fight against al Qaeda after 9/11.

However, ties have been strained due to coups in the South Asian country by Pakistan's military, support for the Taliban's 1996-2001 rule in Afghanistan, and over the nuclear weapons programme.



Title: Israeli military says Yemen missile lands in Tel Aviv area, 14 lightly injured, Israeli ambulance service says

Fourteen people are lightly injured, Israeli ambulance service says

The Israeli military said it failed to intercept a missile from Yemen early on Saturday that fell in the Tel Aviv-Jaffa area, and the ambulance service said 14 people received mild injuries.

A spokesperson for the Iran-aligned Houthis said they had hit a "military target" in the Jaffa area with a ballistic missile.

Paramedics were treating 14 people with minor shrapnel injuries and some were taken to hospital, the ambulance service said in a statement.

The Israeli police reported receiving reports of a fallen missile in a town in the Tel Aviv area.

The Houthis have repeatedly fired drones and missiles towards Israel in what they describe as acts of solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza.

On Thursday, Israel launched strikes against ports and energy infrastructure in Houthi-held parts of Yemen and threatened more attacks against the Yemeni group.



Title: US military conducts precision airstrikes against Houthi targets in Sanaa

The strikes aim to "disrupt and degrade Houthi operations, such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels", the US military says

The US military said it conducted precision airstrikes on Saturday against a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility operated by Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen's capital, Sanaa.

In a statement, the US military's Central Command said the strikes aimed to "disrupt and degrade Houthi operations, such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea, Bab al-Mandeb, and Gulf of Aden".

The US military also said it struck multiple Houthi one-way drones and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea.

Saturday's strike followed a similar attack last week by US aircraft against a command and control facility operated by the Houthis, which control much of Yemen.

On Thursday, Israel launched strikes against ports and energy infrastructure in Houthi-held parts of Yemen and threatened more attacks against the group, which has launched hundreds of missiles at Israel over the past year.

The Iran-backed group in Yemen has been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year to try to enforce a naval blockade on Israel, saying they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians in Israel's year-long war in Gaza.



Title: Pope calls Gaza airstrikes 'cruelty' after Israeli minister's criticism

"Yesterday, children were bombed," said the pope. "This is cruelty. This is not war. I wanted to say this because it touches the heart."

Pope Francis delivers a Christmas message to Vatican workers in Paul VI Hall at the Vatican, Dec 21, 2024. REUTERS/Ciro De Luca

Pope Francis on Saturday again condemned Israeli airstrikes in Gaza, a day after an Israeli government minister publicly denounced the pontiff for suggesting the global community should study whether the military offensive there constitutes a genocide of the Palestinian people.

Francis opened his annual Christmas address to the Catholic cardinals who lead the Vatican's various departments with what appeared to be a reference to Israeli airstrikes on Friday that killed at least 25 Palestinians in Gaza.

"Yesterday, children were bombed," said the pope. "This is cruelty. This is not war. I wanted to say this because it touches the heart."

The pope, as leader of the 1.4-billion-member Roman Catholic Church, is usually careful about taking sides in conflicts, but he has recently been more outspoken about Israel's military campaign against Palestinian militant group Hamas.

In book excerpts published last month, the pontiff said some international experts said that "what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of a genocide".

Israeli Minister of Diaspora Affairs Amichai Chikli sharply criticised those comments in an unusual open letter published by Italian newspaper Il Foglio on Friday. Chikli said the pope's remarks amounted to a "trivialisation" of the term genocide.

Israel's foreign ministry said that Israel was defending itself against the cruelty exemplified by Hamas militants "hiding behind children while trying to murder Israeli children," holding 100 hostages and abusing them.

"Unfortunately, the Pope has chosen to ignore all of this," the ministry said, adding that the "death of any innocent person in a war is a tragedy."

"Israel makes extraordinary efforts to prevent harm to innocents, while Hamas makes extraordinary efforts to increase harm to Palestinian civilians," the ministry said.

Francis also said on Saturday that the Catholic bishop of Jerusalem, known as a patriarch, had tried to enter the Gaza Strip on Friday to visit Catholics there, but was denied entry.

The patriarch's office told Reuters it was not able to comment on the pope's remarks about the patriarch being denied entry.

The Israeli military said on Saturday the patriarch's entry had been approved and he would enter Gaza on Sunday, barring any major security issues. Aid from the patriarch's office entered last week, the military said.

Israel allows clerics to enter Gaza and "works in cooperation with the Christian community to make it easier for the Christian population that remains in the Gaza Strip – including coordinating its removal from the Gaza Strip to a third country," a statement from the military said.

The war began when Hamas-led Palestinian militants attacked southern Israeli communities on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people, mostly civilians, and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza, according to Israeli authorities.

Israel's retaliatory campaign, which it says is aimed at eliminating Hamas, has killed more than 45,000 people, mostly civilians, according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip. The campaign has displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins.

Israel says that at least a third of the dead have been militants and says it tries to avoid harm to civilians but is battling militants who it accuses of embedding among the population in dense urban areas. Hamas rejects this.



Title: More than 30 dead in Brazil bus, truck collision

The exact death toll remains uncertain due to the condition of the bodies, which were burned beyond recognition

A damaged car is crushed under a vehicle following a traffic accident after a packed bus collided with a truck, at the Fernao Dias national highway, near Teofilo Otoni, Brazil, Dec 21, 2024. Belo Horizonte Military Fire Department/­Handout via REUTERS

A packed bus collided with a truck and burst into flames early on Saturday in Brazil, killing more than 30 people, the fire department said.

After completing the removal of victims from a major highway near the town of Teofilo Otoni in Minas Gerais, the state's fire department estimated the number of fatalities between 32 and 35, including at least one child.

The exact death toll remains uncertain due to the condition of the bodies, which were burned beyond recognition.

Confirmation will likely depend on forensic work by the Civil Police, the department said in a statement.

A forensic investigation will also be required to determine the accident's cause, as differing accounts were gathered from witness testimonies, it added.

Initially, firefighters reported the bus, carrying 45 passengers, had a tire blowout, causing the driver to lose control before colliding with an oncoming truck on the BR-116 federal highway, a major route connecting Brazil's densely populated southeast to the poorer northeast.

However, witnesses also reported that a granite block the truck was transporting came loose, fell on the road and caused the collision with the bus, said the fire department.

"Only the forensic investigation will confirm the true version," it added.

The bus departed from Sao Paulo and was headed to the state of Bahia.

Firefighters said they rescued 13 passengers from the wrecked bus. Three occupants of a car that also collided and was trapped under the truck survived the accident.



Title: Out-of-control Australia bushfire will burn for days, officials say

Hundreds of residents have been ordered to leave the area around Grampians National Park west of Melbourne immediately

New South Wales Rural Fire Service fire truck is seen at a hazard reduction burn site in Sydney, Australia, Sept 10, 2023. REUTERS

An uncontained bushfire raging in Australia's Victoria state that has prompted an evacuation order for hundreds of residents will burn for several days, officials said on Sunday.

The order to leave immediately, set at the highest danger rating, remained in place for the fire in and around Grampians National Park, about 241 km (149 miles) west of state capital Melbourne, Victoria's emergency services agency said on its website.

"There's a lot of unburnt fuel in the Grampians still, so it's quite a challenge for the days ahead", Country Fire Authority deputy chief officer Garry Cook told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, referring to the fire that now covered 34,000 hectares (84,000 acres) of bush.

The blaze, sparked on Tuesday by lightning, prompted authorities on Saturday to urge residents of several rural towns such as Halls Gap, population 495, to evacuate.

Hundreds of firefighters have battled the bushfire, using more than 100 tankers and 25 aircraft, ABC reported on Saturday.

Authorities have warned of a high-risk bushfire season this Australian summer after several quiet seasons. The 2019-2020 "Black Summer" fires destroyed an area the size of Turkey and killed 33 people.



Title: Suffering from heavy cold, Pope Francis to lead Sunday prayers from residence

He has suffered from influenza and related problems a number of times since the start of 2023

Pope Francis speaks during the weekly general audience, in Paul VI hall at the Vatican, Dec 18, 2024. REUTERS/Guglielmo Mangiapane

Pope Francis, who has just turned 88 and has been suffering from a heavy cold, will lead the regular Sunday Angelus prayer from inside his residence as a precaution, the Vatican said in a statement on Saturday.

The decision was taken in view of cold weather in Rome and the pope's commitments in the coming Christmas week, it added.

Francis, who has been pope since 2013, had complained about the effects of his cold during an audience on Friday, but earlier on Saturday he was well enough to deliver his annual Christmas address to cardinals.

The pope will give the Angelus on Sunday from the chapel of the Vatican's Santa Marta quarters where he lives, rather than addressing pilgrims from a window overlooking St. Peter's Square.

Francis has suffered spells of ill health in recent years. When he was 21, the then Jorge Bergoglio developed pleurisy and had part of one of his lungs removed in his native Argentina.

He has suffered from influenza and related problems a number of times since the start of 2023, cancelling a planned trip to the COP28 climate meeting in Dubai last year because of the effects of flu and lung inflammation.

He delivered the Angelus from Santa Marta last December as he recovered from that bout of flu.

The coming days are expected to be particularly intense because in addition to the regular Christmas services, the pope will also mark the start of the Holy Year or Jubilee on Christmas Eve, Dec 24.

The pope is scheduled to open the bronze door of St. Peter's Basilica, which symbolises the doorway of salvation for Catholics and is normally sealed, for the start of the Jubilee.

Such Holy Years are normally held every 25 years and this one is expected to attract millions of additional visitors to the Vatican and Rome.



Title: Hollywood embraces God and the 'cowboy curious' to broaden audience

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience

Creator, director and executive producer Taylor Sheridan (L) poses with cast members Kevin Costner and Kelly Reilly at a premiere for the television series "Yellowstone" in Los Angeles, California, US, June 11, 2018. REUTERS

The script for the biblical epic "Mary," which tells the story of the Nativity from the perspective of Mary of Nazareth, languished in Hollywood for some 15 years before entering production.

As the independent film approached completion this September, it attracted interest from three major Hollywood studios and streaming giant Netflix, which emerged as the global distributor and released the movie this month.

"Mary" has ranked among Netflix's top 10 English-language movies, attracting 24.6 million views.

"The marketplace has changed dramatically over the course of the past five years," said director DJ Caruso. "Particularly in the epic or the high-quality, faith-based genre. There's a real desire or hunger out there now."

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience. Major film studios, wealthy investors and streaming services are pouring money into faith-based movies, rodeos and outdoor lifestyle programming as an alternative to superhero sagas or dramas heavy with sex and violence.

Studio executives, talent agents and television showrunners told Reuters the industry has recognized it is missing broad swaths of the United States. Donald Trump’s election as president in November, buoyed by working-class voters, underscored the importance of programming to the whole country, not just cities on the coasts.

Hollywood has periodically mined the Bible for box office gold with films such as "The Ten Commandments" and "Noah." The success of Angel Studios' "Sound of Freedom," a 2023 thriller loosely based on the story of a Homeland Security agent who rescues children from sex trafficking, won over religious and conservative audiences and sparked new interest in the genre.

FROM HORROR TO FAITH

Hollywood's master of modern horror, "Paranormal Activity" filmmaker Jason Blum, joined Lionsgate and other investors in backing The Wonder Project, an independent studio that raised more than $75 million to produce faith-based films and series for Amazon Prime Video. Its series about a biblical king, "House of David," will be released in February.

"There are an awful lot of people throughout the country that think this is exactly the type of programming they'd like to watch -- particularly with their families," said Lionsgate Vice Chairman Michael Burns.

Lionsgate this year renewed its partnership with Kingdom Story Company, the production company behind "Jesus Revolution."

Netflix, meanwhile, struck a multiyear deal with acclaimed filmmaker and actor Tyler Perry to produce faith-based films for the streaming service.

Some executives told Reuters the industry has recognised it is missing broad regions of the US with films and TV shows that garner critical acclaim but draw a narrow audience.

The disparity is exemplified by the commercial success of Paramount Network's "Yellowstone," the Western family melodrama that swept America's heartland. "Yellowstone" attracted more than 11.4 million viewers in its fifth-season finale -- nearly four times as many as the 2023 finale of the Emmy-winning HBO series "Succession."

Thomas Tull, founder of superhero movie producer Legendary Entertainment, recognized the opportunity before many others. Together with TWG Global and Guggenheim Partners CEO Mark Walter, he launched Teton Ridge in 2019, a Western sports, entertainment and lifestyle brand built around rodeos. The company, which is owned by TWG Global, attracted additional investment from venture capitalist Jim Breyer and the Lee Bass family office.

The live competitions -- which include bull riding, steer wrestling and barrel racing -- attract a global audience of 80 million people a year.

COWBOY HEROES

Teton Ridge saddled up, last month acquiring The Cowboy Channel and Cowgirl Channel, a deal that secured exclusive media rights to more than 600 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association rodeos. That augments its collection of Western sports properties, which include the American Rodeo Contender Series, whose championship weekend is carried live on Fox Sports, and the "Let's Freakin' Rodeo" podcast, hosted by top-ranked tie-down roper Ty Harris and his cousin, filmmaker Cole Harris.

Meanwhile, Teton Ridge Entertainment is exploring Western stories in films, series and documentaries, including adapting the late bestselling author Louis L’Amour’s novel “Fallon,” which is set in the Old West, appealing to an audience CEO Deirdre Lester describes as the “cowboy curious.”

"Our mission is to be making content for an underserved audience," said Jillian Share, president of Teton Ridge Entertainment. "Making stuff where it appeals to a much larger part of our country than a lot of the stuff that we -- myself included -- have been focused on for the last 20 years of my career.”

She called the cowboy “the first true, great American hero.”

“You look at superheroes and you look at Marvel and DC, and you're like, what's more iconic than the cowboy?” Share said.

Veteran entertainment executive Peter Chernin's investment fund The Chernin Group became the principal investor in MeatEater in 2018, a blossoming media brand built around outdoorsman Steven Rinella, a best-selling author, podcaster and host of a forthcoming History Channel series, “Hunting History.”

Some, however, feel sidelined by Hollywood’s pursuit of the American heartland. They worry that executives have become fearful of being branded "woke," a label hurled at Walt Disney by Florida Governor and former Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

One television showrunner, who was in the final phase of negotiations for a streaming series featuring a diverse cast, learned a day after Trump’s election that the project would not go forward. The showrunner, who requested anonymity for fear of retaliation, saw a correlation between the programming decision and Trump’s victory.

Another development executive shared an email from one network executive, who rejected a project as too "political."

Earlier this year, the makers of "The Apprentice," a biopic about Trump, struggled to find a distributor even after an enthusiastic reception at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

An attorney for Trump sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers. Briarcliff Entertainment released the movie in October, and stars Sebastian Stan and Jeremy Strong were nominated for Golden Globe awards.

This week, Disney said it had removed a transgender storyline from upcoming Pixar animation series "Win or Lose." The character will remain in the show, but the few lines of dialogue that reference the character's gender identity have been removed.

"When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline," a Disney spokesperson said.



Title: Brazilian judge orders Adele song removed over plagiarism claim

Adele is accused of copying a song ‘Mulheres’, a national hit since the 1990s

Adele waves to singer Beyonce who is in the audience as she and co-song writer Greg Kurstin (not pictured) accept the Grammy for Song of the Year for "Hello" at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US , Feb 12, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson

A judge in Rio de Janeiro has ordered the global removal of a 2015 song by British singer Adele due to a plagiarism claim by a Brazilian musician, which Universal Music is fighting on appeal.

The ruling, made public on Monday, came in a case filed this year by Toninho Geraes, whose compositions were made famous by some of Brazil's most acclaimed samba singers.

Geraes accused Adele of copying his song "Mulheres", a national hit since the 1990s. His lawyers uploaded to YouTube a comparison of that song and Adele's "Million Years Ago".

"The ruling shows that the Brazilian justice system is strong and that injuries to Brazilian artists won't be ignored," said Fredimio Biasotto Trotta, a lawyer for Geraes.

The decision orders Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music to immediately cease "using, reproducing, editing, distributing, or commercializing" the song by any means on streaming or sharing platforms, without Geraes' consent. It set a fine of 50,000 reais ($8,080.94) if the companies fail to comply with the order.

The Berne Convention, an international treaty, orders other signatory countries, including the US, to comply with legal decisions regarding copyright, Trotta said.

Geraes' lawyers are now notifying streaming services, such as Spotify SPOT.N and Deezer, to withdraw the song in Brazil and globally. On Wednesday morning, the song was still widely available.

Universal appealed the decision on Tuesday, arguing there was no plagiarism, only an "accidental melodic similarity" due to the use of "musical clichés."

Both Adele and Geraes have contracts with Universal, but the Brazilian musician has been trying to terminate his contract with the company due to his plagiarism claim, his lawyer said.

"I felt very disrespected," Geraes told Reuters. He is asking the courts for compensation of more than $150,000.

Lawyers representing Universal Music declined to comment, and Sony Music did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

Geraes learned of the similarities between the two songs after a friend, who is also a composer, heard Adele's "Million Years Ago" at a party in 2021.



Title: Tabla legend Zakir Hussain dies at 73

The musician was the winner of 4 Grammy awards and the Padma Vibhushan, India’s second-highest civilian honour

Tabla maestro Zakir Hussain has died at a hospital in the US’s San Francisco, reports Indian broadcaster NDTV. He was 73.

Zakir died from complications due to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, according to a statement from the family.

He had been in hospital for the past two weeks and was shifted to intensive care when his condition deteriorated.

Zakir’s sister Khurshid Aulia said he passed away "very peacefully".

"He passed away very peacefully after the ventilation machine was switched off. This was 4pm San Francisco time," she told PTI.

The esteemed tabla great leaves behind a wife and two daughters.

"He leaves behind an extraordinary legacy cherished by countless music lovers around the globe, with an influence that will resonate for generations to come,” the family said.

Zakir was born on Mar 9, 1951, the son of heralded tabla master Ustad Alla Rakha.

Over a career that spanned six decades, he worked with renowned artists in India and abroad. His collaborators included Indian icons Ravi Shankar, Ali Akbar Khan and Shivkumar Sharma, as well as groundbreaking work with John McLaughlin, Yo-Yo Ma, Charles Lloyd, Bela Fleck, Edgar Meyer, Mickey Hart and George Harrison.

One of India’s most celebrated classical musicians, Zakir received the Padma Shri in 1988, Padma Bhushan in 2002, and the Padma Vibhushan -- India’s second-highest civilian honour -- in 2023.

He was also acclaimed on the international stage, taking home four Grammy Awards, including three at the ceremony earlier this year.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan hailed Zakir as "a beacon of India's rich musical heritage and a true custodian of classical traditions".

"Ustad Zakir Hussain was instrumental in popularising Indian music across the globe, serving as a beacon of India's rich musical heritage. A true custodian of classical traditions, his contributions to the arts remain unparalleled. His passing is a monumental loss to culture and humanity. Heartfelt condolences to his loved ones," he said.

Expressing his condolences to Zakir's family, Congress President Mallikarjun Kharge called him a "cultural ambassador who bridged borders and generations with his mesmerising rhythms".

"The Padma Vibhushan tabla maestro and percussionist, gloriously took forward the legacy of his father with exceptional performances and collaborations. His numerous national and international honours are a testament to this.”



Title: Allu Arjun vows cooperation in probe into woman's death at 'Pushpa 2' premiere after release from jail

The South Indian star was arrested over a stampede that killed a woman and injured a child at a screening of his latest blockbuster

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun has promised to cooperate in the probe into the stampede at the screening of his latest blockbuster 'Pushpa 2: The Rule' that killed a woman and seriously injured a child in Hyderabad following his release from jail.

He stressed that he is a law-abiding citizen and expressed his condolences to the victim's family after being freed on bail on Saturday, Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

"I want to thank all my fans. There is nothing to worry about. I would like to once again express my condolences to the family. It was an unfortunate incident. We are sorry for what happened," he said.

Allu Arjun was arrested on Friday in connection with the fatal incident at Hyberabad's Sandhya Theatre on Dec 4. Despite securing bail from a Telangana High Court, he had to spend the night behind bars as the jail authorities did not received a copy of the bail order until late last night.

The actor's counsel Ashok Reddy pointed the finger at the authorities for the delay in his release from jail. "The High Court order is very specific. Forthwith, the moment you [prison authorities] receive the order, [they should] release him. Despite the clear order, they have not released, they have to answer. This is an illegal detention. We will take legal steps," he is quoted as saying by NDTV.

Hours after Allu Arjun's arrest, the victim's husband said that he was "ready to withdraw the case".

"I was not aware of the arrest. Allu Arjun has nothing to do with the stampede in which my wife passed away," he said.

ALLU ARJUN THANKS SUPPORTERS

After an emotional reunion with his family, the actor expressed gratitude to everyone who supported him following his arrest, especially his fans. He reiterated that the stampede and subsequent death of the woman were "purely accidental and unintentional, with no connection to me".

He added that he had been visiting Sandhya Theatre for 20 years and had never witnessed such an incident before.

WHAT HAPPENED ON DEC 4?

A 35-year-old woman died and her eight-year-old son was hospitalised after a stampede broke out as thousands of fans gathered to catch a glimpse of Allu Arjun at the premiere of the blockbuster Pushpa 2.

WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?

In the aftermath of the incident, city police filed a case against the actor, his security team, and the theatre management based on a complaint lodged by the woman's family.

Reacting to the arrest, Rashmika Mandanna, Arjun's Pushpa 2 co-star, said she was "disheartened to see everything being blamed on a single individual".

Actor Varun Dhawan also weighed in, saying, "Safety protocols can't be solely the responsibility of an actor. We can inform people around us, but the incident was tragic, and I express my condolences. However, the blame can't rest on one person alone."



Title: Actor Allu Arjun arrested after woman's death in 'Pushpa 2' screening stampede

A stampede erupted at Hyderabad's Sandhya Theatre after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance during the film's premiere

Indian police have arrested Telugu superstar Allu Arjun in connection with a stampede that occurred outside a Hyderabad theatre and led to a woman's death.

The stampede broke out after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance at the theatre during a screening of his new film 'Pusha 2: The Rule', Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

Earlier, Hyderabad police filed a case naming the 41-year-old actor and others, including his security team members and the management of the Sandhya Theatre.

The victim was a 35-year-old woman. Her eight-year-old son was also injured in the stampede that erupted as the massive crowd jostled and shoved each other to catch a glimpse of Arjun upon his unannounced arrival.

"There was no intimation from the side of theatre management or actors' team... that they will be visiting the theatre..." Hyderabad Police Commissioner CV Anand had said.

He also noted that no separate entry, or exit, were provided, even though the theatre authorities knew they were coming.

Arjun arrived at the theatre at 9:30pm. He used the main entrance and spent 15-20 minutes outside. As news of his arrival spread, hundreds of people thronged to catch a glimpse of him.

His security team started pushing the crowd back and that aggravated the situation.

Revathi, the deceased woman, and her son felt "suffocated", police said. They were pulled out of the crowd by police who performed emergency first aid and shifted them to a nearby hospital.

Arjun, by this time, had gone into the theatre, but the crowd had continued building in the lobby.

The actor has since announced assistance of Rs 2.5 million for the woman's family, and also promised to take care of the medical expenses of the child, whose condition was critical.



Title: Another fan dies during screening of Allu Arjun's 'Pushpa-2' in India

A woman had previously been killed in a stampede while attending the Allu Arjun starrer's premiere in Hyderabad

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun's "Pushpa 2: The Rule" has been marred by the death of another viewer during a screening at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh.

Despite dominating the Indian box office since its release, the film has now been overshadowed by two deaths in theatres, sparking widespread concern.

According to The Hindustan Times, the latest incident occurred on Monday when the body of 35-year-old Harijana Madhannappa was found at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh' Rayadurgam.

Ravi Babu, an Andhra Pradesh police official, said that Madhannappa attended a 2:30pm screening on Monday.

He allegedly arrived intoxicated and continued drinking inside the theatre, according to Babu. Around 6pm, cleaning staff discovered him unresponsive, he said.

Police noted that Madhannappa, a father of four, had a history of alcohol abuse.

The exact cause of death has yet to be determined, but a case has been filed over the matter, Babu said.

Earlier, on Dec 4, 32-year-old Revathi was trampled to death while attending the premiere of "Pushpa 2" in Hyderabad. She was accompanied by her 9-year-old son Sritej, who fainted amid the chaos.

Following the incident, Revathi’s family filed a lawsuit against Allu Arjun, his security team, and the theatre authorities.

In response, Allu Arjun pledged Rs 2.5 million in compensation to Revathi’s family and assured that he would cover all medical expenses for her son Sritej.

Police have launched separate investigations into both incidents.

"Pushpa 2", directed by Sukumar, premiered on Dec 5. Starring Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna, the film has been a box office sensation, earning over Rs 6.45 billion in its first week of release.



