Category: lifestyle

Title: Spain's Christmas lottery spreads cash and seasonal joy to winners

The audience, waiting for hours, don Santa hats, costumes, and lucky charms

People wear Christmas-themed hats on the day of Spain's Christmas lottery "El Gordo" (The Fat One), in Madrid, Spain Dec 22, 2024. REUTERS/Isabel Infantes

Players with winning tickets in Spain's huge Christmas lottery draw on Sunday celebrated with sparkling wine, cheers and hugs in a 200-year-old tradition that marks the beginning of the Christmas season.

The total prize pot in the state-run National Lottery event reached 2.71 billion euros ($2.83 billion) this year, slightly more than last year's 2.59 billion euros.

The top prize, known as "El Gordo" (The Fat One), was won in the northern city of Logrono, capital of La Rioja region that is famed for its wines.

In the nationally televised draw at Madrid's Teatro Real, young pupils from San Ildefonso school picked the winning numbers from two revolving globes and sang them out.

The audience, who had queued for hours to enter, wore Santa hats, regional costumes and their personal lucky charms.

"I'd like the lottery to go to Valencia. Honestly, I think it should go to the affected areas. We'd like that very much," said 25-year-old Vicent Jacinto, dressed in a traditional Valencian fallas suit and referring to deadly floods that struck the region in October.

Lottery mania hits Spain in the weeks leading up to the Christmas lottery. Relatives, co-workers, groups of friends and club members frequently buy tickets or fractions of them together, often favouring particular "lucky" vendors or numbers.

The most common ticket costs 20 euros, offering up to 400,000 euros in prize money, before taxes.

The lottery tradition dates back to 1812, when Spain was under French occupation during the Napoleonic Wars and the draw aimed to raise funds to fight for independence.

These days, proceeds after operating costs and payouts are given to social causes.



Title: Ivory Coast's economic hub Abidjan turns into vibrant graffiti gallery

Passers-by praise artists’ efforts to revamp the urban centre

Street artists who came to participate in the first edition of Graff Ivoire, paint a mural on the facade of the Pullman hotel, in Abidjan, Ivory Coast Nov 17, 2024. REUTERS/Luc Gnago

Splashes of vibrant colours are reviving the urban canvas of Abidjan's Plateau district, the economic heart of the Ivory Coast.

Ivorians have previously viewed graffiti with disdain and graffiti artists were liable for prosecution. But that view is changing, and graffiti murals are increasingly common on city walls as the artform has gained acceptance.

Towering murals and intricate graffiti pieces now adorn the exteriors of international hotels and major thoroughfares.

The inaugural "Ivory Graff Graffiti Festival" attracted around 40 national and international artists who spent two weeks in November converting bland walls into 300-meter-long works of art.

Benjamin Le Lieve, president of festival organiser Graff Ivoire, said he was proud to have launched a new initiative.

Passers-by admired the artists at work and expressed approval for their efforts to revamp the urban centre.

"It brings a change to the city of Abidjan," said Michael Bende, an Ivorian citizen.

South African artist Dbongz Mahlathi said: "The graffiti I've created isn't for me ... it's for the people who will see it every day."



Title: Kite-making picks up in India's Gujarat as harvest festival nears

Gujarat's kite industry employs 130,000, despite a brief flying season

Kite enthusiasts fly kites during the eight-day-long International Kite Festival in Ahmedabad, India, Jan 7, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

Huddled over piles of colourful paper, Mohammad Yunus is one among thousands of workers in India's western state of Gujarat who make kites by hand that are used during a major harvest festival.

People in Gujarat celebrate Uttarayan, a Hindu festival in mid-January that celebrates the end of winter by flying kites held by glass-coated or plastic strings.

"The kite may seem like a small item but it takes a long time to make it. Many people are involved in it and their livelihoods depend on it," Yunus, a Muslim who comes to Gujarat from neighbouring Rajasthan state to make kites during the peak season, told Reuters.

More than 130,000 people are involved in kite-making throughout Gujarat, according to government estimates, many of whom work from homes to make kites that cost as little as five rupees (6 US cents).

At the start of the two-day festival, people rent roofs and terraces from those who have access to them, and gather there to fly colourful kites that criss-cross each other in the sky.

Gujarat is a hub of the kite industry in the country, boasting a market worth 6.50 billion Indian rupees ($76.58 million), and the state accounts for about 65% of the total number of kites made in India.

While the kite flying season in the state is limited to almost just 2 or 3 days in January, the industry runs year-round providing employment to about 130,000 people in the state, according to government figures.

But these paper birds are also harmful and can be fatal, especially kites that have plastic strings, which can cause serious cuts to birds in the sky, killing and injuring thousands of them during the festival.

At least 18 people died from kite related injures across Gujarat during this year's Uttarayan festival, including being cut by a string and getting electrocuted while trying to extricate a kite from an electric pole, local media reported.



Title: Shanghai bear cub Junjun becomes breakout star

Born at the zoo as the first offspring of his parents, Junjun was hand-reared by keepers who supply his toys and favourite foods of beef and apples with honey

A 11-month-old bear cub, Junjun, looks on in his enclosure at Shanghai Zoo, in Shanghai, China Dec 12, 2024. REUTERS/Casey Hall

Adoring crowds are flocking to a zoo in Shanghai to watch Junjun, a bear cub just 11 months old, as he frolics in his enclosure playing with toys, such as a favourite tyre, or splashing in a water trough.

Standing 1 m (3.3 ft) tall and weighing more than 35 kg (77 lbs), the brown bear's every move captivates fans, who exclaim at his resemblance to a playful puppy and admire his fluffy fur coat.

Even on a cold weekday in December, when the zoo in China's commercial hub is mostly deserted, a crowd gathers at the outdoor enclosure where Junjun encounters his doting public every two days.

"His little movements are really funny. Very cute, so cute that it can't be cuter," said one visitor, surnamed Lin.

Born at the zoo as the first offspring of his parents, Junjun was hand-reared by keepers who supply his toys and favourite foods of beef and apples with honey.

Junjun's fame has spread on social media, with videos and pictures online commenting on his resemblance to Duffy, a teddy bear and popular Disney character.

"Everyone likes such a lively and active bear cub," said his keeper, Yang Junjie. "He can play in the exhibition area all day long, attracting everyone's attention."

Junjun has always been playful, said Yang, who added he was initially taken aback by the streams of visitors as he did not realise his charge had become an online celebrity.

The bear's favourite game is racing with his keepers, first chasing them, then being chased by them but stopping to let them catch up.



Title: In Rio de Janeiro competition, barbers battle for best haircut

Over more than a decade since it started, the competition has cemented itself as a tradition in Rio's suburbs

A boy shows his bleached hair during a barbers' battle contest for best haircut in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil December 15, 2024. REUTERS/Aline Massuca

Over the sound of Brazilian music and under the scorching Rio de Janeiro heat, around 90 barbers battled on Sunday to decide who would be the best in a yearly competition that boosts the careers of winners and garners international attention.

Gathered in a park in Rio's Madureira neighbourhood, barbers made the heads of volunteers their canvas, colouring and buzzing hair to create styles that showcase abstract or detailed designs.

"Ten years ago, barbers were a thing from my grandfather's time, no one believed in the profession," said Erica Nunes, the event's creator. "The battle of the barbers arose to value this profession."

Over more than a decade since it started, the competition has cemented itself as a tradition in Rio's suburbs, attracting barbers from across Brazil and even from neighboring countries.

"We are very well prepared and eager," said Allan Gonzales, a Bolivian barber.

From inside an MMA-like ring, barbers compete to win in four different categories, with their work evaluated by a panel of judges. Marcelo Anderson, known as Magnific, won in the drawing category - he used his clippers to create the portraits of two men on the side of the young client's head.

This was his fourth win since he started competing over a decade ago, and each time he sees a boost on his clientele after it, he told Reuters.

"It brings more visibility, a lot of fans. They start following me on social media and I gain more clients."



Title: Stand aside Harry Potter, blazing brooms light up Spanish festival

The fiery festival takes place on the eve of the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception

People carry brooms on fire during the "Los Escobazos" festival in Jarandilla de la Vera, Caceres, Spain, Dec 7, 2024. REUTERS/Ana Beltran

Processions of people wielding flaming brooms may sound like something out of magic tales, but those used to light up a Spanish town every year are the real thing - and there is no witchcraft involved, just fun.

Every year on Dec 7, the inhabitants of Jarandilla de la Vera, a town in western Spain about 200 km (124 miles) west of Madrid, set bundles of twigs on fire and playfully hit each other on the legs in a festival known as Los Escobazos (the broom strikes).

"This celebration represents the best (feeling) for us. All the sadness you had in your body and didn't know how to get rid of, you leave it here with the fire," local resident Vicente Berrocosa told Reuters on Saturday.

The fiery festival is celebrated on the eve of the Catholic feast known as the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception. It is believed to have originated with shepherds coming from the hills using blazing brooms to light their way.

"We play with fire as if we were playing with water. For us, fire is a symbol of purity. Nothing happens, we hit each other and we don't get hurt, we don't get burned. It's wonderful!" said another resident, Jesus Ferino.



Title: New York museum unveils 'Apex' - an almost complete Stegosaurus

The fossil, found in Colorado, has recently sold for $44.6 million at an auction

A Stegosaurus fossil nicknamed Apex is unveiled to the media at the American Museum of Natural History, in New York City, US, Dec 5, 2024. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

The American Museum of Natural History revealed the identity of its latest resident on Thursday - "Apex," one of the most complete specimens ever discovered of the plant-eating dinosaur Stegosaurus, known for the upright plates on its back and a spiky tail.

To excited gasps from an audience of school children, the museum pulled back a beige curtain to reveal the 11-foot (3.4-metre) tall, 20-foot (6-metre) long skeleton of the Jurassic Period dinosaur.

"People are really excited about this fossil because Stegosaurus is an iconic dinosaur," said the museum's dinosaur curator Roger Benson.

Stegosaurus walked on four legs and lived in North America around 150 million years ago during the Jurassic Period. Its fossils were first discovered in the 1870s.

"Although it was a herbivore, Stegosaurus wasn't like a cow or a sheep," Benson said. "It's a herbivore that could look after itself. It has these wicked spikes on its tail. It has plates along its back."

Those would have been useful as protection against meat-eating dinosaurs like Allosaurus.

This Stegosaurus fossil was found in Colorado and fetched a record $44.6 million at a Sotheby's auction in July. The buyer has loaned it to the New York museum, one of the leading natural history museums in the United States.

"Everyone has their own favourite dinosaur, but Stegosaurus is up there in the top five. So it's hard not to get excited about a really complete, large individual of this animal," Benson said.



Title: Japan's centuries-old sake tradition recognised on UNESCO cultural heritage list

Producers hope this will boost global interest in the traditional rice wine that dates back centuries

Japan's Ambassador to UNESCO Takehiro Kano addresses the audience at the 19th World Cultural Heritage Conference, as Japan's Sake was added to UNESCO'S Intangible Cultural Heritage list, in Asuncion, Paraguay Dec 4, 2024. REUTERS

UNESCO recognized Japan's ancient process of sake brewing as an "intangible cultural heritage" on Wednesday, which producers hope will boost global interest in the traditional rice wine that dates back centuries but has waned in popularity at home.

Naturally, Japanese representatives at a UNESCO meeting in Paraguay marked the occasion by sampling some sake.

The beverage is made over several weeks by fermenting a mixture of rice, water, yeast and a colorful mold known as koji, in a process more akin to making beer than wine. The end results can be served hot, cold or at room temperature.

While sake plays a significant role in Japanese society and tradition, often served during ceremonies and special meals, demand has ebbed for the drink domestically even as international demand grows.

Sake producers hope UNESCO's recognition accelerates their exports and reinvigorates enthusiasm for the beverage at home.

"We are very happy," said Japan's permanent representative to UNESCO, Takehiro Kano.

"Being recognized internationally by this mechanism will renew the interest of Japanese people in this area, and that could lead to more momentum for transmitting these skills and know-how to the next generation."

UNESCO, the United Nations' education, scientific and cultural agency, admits practices, pieces of art or skills to its intangible cultural heritage list to foster their preservation for future generations.

UNESCO delegates also approved Asturian cider culture in Spain and the making of giant barrels in Guatemala, among other items and practices admitted to the list on Wednesday.



Title: Bronze statues, coins and ancient eggs found in Tuscan thermal baths

Archaeologists have been digging in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop town about 160 km north of Rome

The so-called bull statuette is displayed after it was discovered and pulled out from the muddy ruins of an ancient spa in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop village in southern Tuscany still home to popular thermal baths, in Grosseto, Italy, Sept 25, 2024. Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism/Handout via REUTERS

Ancient statues, coins, jewels and still-intact eggs from Roman and Etruscan times have been recovered from thermal baths in southern Tuscany, Italy's culture ministry said on Tuesday, presenting the latest discoveries at the site.

Archaeologists have been digging in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop town about 160 km (100 miles) north of Rome since 2019, and announced other remarkablefinds over the past two years.

San Casciano had a shrine linked to hot water springs used for healing purposes as far back into the 3rd century B.C., the ministry said. Etruscans and Romans used to throw offerings in there, which are now being excavated.

The latest findings, located almost 5 metres (16 feet) below the ground, include male and female bronze sculptures, including of man cut in half lengthwise, thousands of coins, a gold crown and ring, precious stones, and a series of snake sculptures.

One of these is almost one metre (one yard) long and is likely a representation of Agathos Daimon, a bearded snake-like god with horns from Greek mythology, who may have been the protector of the springs, the ministry said.

It would be the largest bronze sculpture of this god recovered so far, the statement said, noting that smaller examples are held at the British Museum in London and at the National Archaeological Museum in Naples.

Thousands of egg shells were also found, as well as eggs that were intact or with small holes showing the yolk still inside, plus twigs decorated with plants and pine cones, as part of earthly donations to the sanctuary.

San Casciano's artefacts are believed to have been preserved over centuries by the warm mud of the springs. They are due to be put on display in a new museum scheduled to open in the town in late 2026.



Title: China calls on universities to provide 'love education'

Beijing has been promoting various measures to try to make having children more attractive to young couples

Couples take part in pre-wedding photoshoots by the sea in Qingdao, Shandong province, China Apr 21, 2024. REUTERS/Florence Lo

China is urging colleges and universities to provide "love education" to emphasise positive views on marriage, love, fertility and family, in a bid to boost the country's flagging birth rate.

Beijing has been promoting various measures to try to make having children more attractive to young couples after China posted a second consecutive year of population decline in 2023.

China has the second-biggest population in the world at 1.4 billion, but it is ageing quickly, which will increase the demands on government spending in the future and put pressure on the economy.

College students will be the biggest driver of fertility but they have significantly changed their views on marriage and love, the Jiangsu Xinhua newspaper group said, citing China Population News, an official publication.

"Colleges and universities should assume the responsibility of providing marriage and love education to college students by offering marriage and love education courses," the publication said.

The measures would help create a "healthy and positive marriage and childbearing cultural atmosphere."

The state council, or cabinet, rallied local governments in November to direct resources towards fixing China's population decline and spread respect for childbearing and marriages "at the right age," although demographers said the moves were unlikely to resonate with young Chinese.

Around 57% of college students polled by China Population News said they did not want to fall in love, mainly because they did not know how to allocate time to balance the relationship between study and love, the publication said.

Due to the lack of "systematic and scientific marriage and love education, college students have a vague understanding of emotional relationships."

Universities could focus on teaching junior college students about population and national conditions, new marriage and childbearing concepts, it said.

Senior college students and graduate students could be taught through "case analysis, group discussion on maintaining intimate relationships and communication between the sexes."

The courses would be able to help them "improve their ability to correctly understand marriage and love and manage love relationships."



Title: Seized art by Dali, De Chirico showcased in Milan exhibition

The collection spans from the 20th century to early 2000s

A woman walks past sculpture "Disco-Con Sfera" (Disk with sphere) by Arnaldo Pomodoro at exhibition "SalvArti, from Confiscations to Public Collections", a showcase of contemporary artworks coming from confiscations carried out by public authorities against organised crime, in Milan, Italy, Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Claudia Greco

Works by Salvador Dali and Giorgio De Chirico feature in an exhibition of more than 80 paintings and sculptures recovered by Italian authorities from money laundering and mafia probes that opened in Milan on Tuesday.

Hosted at Palazzo Reale, a few steps from Milan's Duomo cathedral, the 'SalvArti' (Save Arts) exhibition of contemporary art also includes works by Andy Warhol, Keith Haring and Arnaldo Pomodoro, the organisers said.

The collection spans from the first half of the 20th century through to the early 2000s.

After a preview in Rome in November, the showcase will continue in Milan until the end of January. It then moves to the southern city of Reggio Calabria, in the heartland of the powerful mafia group 'Ndrangheta, until late April.

The pieces will eventually be distributed to several museums across Italy.



Title: Japanese brewer hopes UNESCO listing makes sake as popular as sushi

The brewing technique will be Japan's 23rd entry on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage

Brewers stir the mixture in a container to make a yeast starter, an important ingredient used in brewing sake, a traditional Japanese rice wine, at Ishikawa Shuzou, or Ishikawa Brewery, in Fussa, western portion of Tokyo, Japan Nov 25, 2024. REUTERS/Issei Kato

At a Tokyo brewery dating back to the days of the samurai, Koichi Maesako drops a 3-metre-long wooden paddle into a giant, jade-coloured tank and gently stirs the white mixture that will turn into sake in a week's time.

The sweet-and-sour-smelling brew - of rice, yeast starter, the culinary mould known as koji and water - has been fermenting for 20 days in what is part of an ancient technique that UNESCO is set to list as Intangible Cultural Heritage this week.

For Maesako, the 40-year-old chief brewer of Ishikawa Shuzou, or Ishikawa Brewery, the UN agency's endorsement would be welcome news after a difficult couple of years.

Unseasonably warm weather has hit the rice harvest, not only affecting the quality of the grain but also raising procurement costs, he said.

Traditional sake brewers had already been contending with decades of falling sales at home as consumers acquired a taste for cocktails like highballs and other alcoholic drinks.

"The situation is much tougher compared to previous years," Maesako told Reuters last week.

"It's still quite warm, even though it's almost December. The price of rice is high and the harvest is poor, which has made sake-brewing (this year) very challenging."

Maesako hopes the UN body's recognition of the traditional brewing technique will turn things around by igniting demand overseas, where sake has slowly gained popularity alongside Japanese cuisine, also in part thanks to UNESCO's endorsement of "washoku" as living heritage in 2013.

"After being listed by UNESCO, Japanese traditional cuisine (washoku) has spread all over the world," Maesako said.

"I hope that the same thing will happen with sake. Our brewery is seeing a rise in exports, and we hope the UNESCO listing will accelerate this trend."

The centuries-old method of making sake is unique for its three-step preparation, or "San-Dan-Jikomi", of allowing multiple fermentation processes to progress simultaneously in a single container.

"It's really cool just seeing and understanding how it all comes together," said Robert Brown, an American visitor at the brewery. "Taking a lot of Japan's history and then turning it into a cultural heritage seems really cool to me."

While sake has lost ground as a regular drink, Maesako said it remains impossible to separate from Japanese culture.

"We have sake at celebrations, at New Year's, and also on sad occasions, like funerals," he said. "The culture of Japanese sake is the culture of Japan itself."

The brewing technique is expected to be formally endorsed at a UNESCO committee session in Paraguay this week. It will be Japan's 23rd entry on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage.



Title: New Greek metro is archaeological window on the past

The project balances modernisation with preservation by displaying artefacts for commuters

A view of a subway station during a visit by Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to admire artefacts unearthed during construction work in Thessaloniki, Greece, Nov 29, 2024. REUTERS/Alexandros Avramidis/Pool

A metro system in Greece's second city Thessaloniki officially opened on Saturday, its stations displaying the same ancient artifacts that nearly derailed the project's completion.

During construction, which began in 2006, workers discovered a Byzantine-era market, a Roman cemetery and other treasures of the city's long and varied history.

The finds stalled the metro's progress and raised questions about how the city would modernise while protecting its rich past. The answer was to blend the two by displaying the uncovered artefacts for modern-day commuters to enjoy.

"This is not just a public works project, which is incredibly important for the city. It is also a museum," Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said before visiting the Venizelou station for a private tour on Friday.

"It's probably unique in the world. We will go through an underground museum to reach the train."

The metro took nearly 20 years to complete, in part because of funding problems during Greece's 2009-2018 debt crisis. It is the first such system in Greece outside Athens.

Builders had to dig deeper than originally planned - up to 31 metres (102 feet) - to make sure the tunnels ran below the archaeological findings, according to the project's contractor.

"It is an opportunity for Thessaloniki to become a second Rome, in terms of antiquities," said Melina Paisidou, one of the archaeologists to discover the relics underground.



Title: Hollywood embraces God and the 'cowboy curious' to broaden audience

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience

Creator, director and executive producer Taylor Sheridan (L) poses with cast members Kevin Costner and Kelly Reilly at a premiere for the television series "Yellowstone" in Los Angeles, California, US, June 11, 2018. REUTERS

The script for the biblical epic "Mary," which tells the story of the Nativity from the perspective of Mary of Nazareth, languished in Hollywood for some 15 years before entering production.

As the independent film approached completion this September, it attracted interest from three major Hollywood studios and streaming giant Netflix, which emerged as the global distributor and released the movie this month.

"Mary" has ranked among Netflix's top 10 English-language movies, attracting 24.6 million views.

"The marketplace has changed dramatically over the course of the past five years," said director DJ Caruso. "Particularly in the epic or the high-quality, faith-based genre. There's a real desire or hunger out there now."

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience. Major film studios, wealthy investors and streaming services are pouring money into faith-based movies, rodeos and outdoor lifestyle programming as an alternative to superhero sagas or dramas heavy with sex and violence.

Studio executives, talent agents and television showrunners told Reuters the industry has recognized it is missing broad swaths of the United States. Donald Trump’s election as president in November, buoyed by working-class voters, underscored the importance of programming to the whole country, not just cities on the coasts.

Hollywood has periodically mined the Bible for box office gold with films such as "The Ten Commandments" and "Noah." The success of Angel Studios' "Sound of Freedom," a 2023 thriller loosely based on the story of a Homeland Security agent who rescues children from sex trafficking, won over religious and conservative audiences and sparked new interest in the genre.

FROM HORROR TO FAITH

Hollywood's master of modern horror, "Paranormal Activity" filmmaker Jason Blum, joined Lionsgate and other investors in backing The Wonder Project, an independent studio that raised more than $75 million to produce faith-based films and series for Amazon Prime Video. Its series about a biblical king, "House of David," will be released in February.

"There are an awful lot of people throughout the country that think this is exactly the type of programming they'd like to watch -- particularly with their families," said Lionsgate Vice Chairman Michael Burns.

Lionsgate this year renewed its partnership with Kingdom Story Company, the production company behind "Jesus Revolution."

Netflix, meanwhile, struck a multiyear deal with acclaimed filmmaker and actor Tyler Perry to produce faith-based films for the streaming service.

Some executives told Reuters the industry has recognised it is missing broad regions of the US with films and TV shows that garner critical acclaim but draw a narrow audience.

The disparity is exemplified by the commercial success of Paramount Network's "Yellowstone," the Western family melodrama that swept America's heartland. "Yellowstone" attracted more than 11.4 million viewers in its fifth-season finale -- nearly four times as many as the 2023 finale of the Emmy-winning HBO series "Succession."

Thomas Tull, founder of superhero movie producer Legendary Entertainment, recognized the opportunity before many others. Together with TWG Global and Guggenheim Partners CEO Mark Walter, he launched Teton Ridge in 2019, a Western sports, entertainment and lifestyle brand built around rodeos. The company, which is owned by TWG Global, attracted additional investment from venture capitalist Jim Breyer and the Lee Bass family office.

The live competitions -- which include bull riding, steer wrestling and barrel racing -- attract a global audience of 80 million people a year.

COWBOY HEROES

Teton Ridge saddled up, last month acquiring The Cowboy Channel and Cowgirl Channel, a deal that secured exclusive media rights to more than 600 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association rodeos. That augments its collection of Western sports properties, which include the American Rodeo Contender Series, whose championship weekend is carried live on Fox Sports, and the "Let's Freakin' Rodeo" podcast, hosted by top-ranked tie-down roper Ty Harris and his cousin, filmmaker Cole Harris.

Meanwhile, Teton Ridge Entertainment is exploring Western stories in films, series and documentaries, including adapting the late bestselling author Louis L’Amour’s novel “Fallon,” which is set in the Old West, appealing to an audience CEO Deirdre Lester describes as the “cowboy curious.”

"Our mission is to be making content for an underserved audience," said Jillian Share, president of Teton Ridge Entertainment. "Making stuff where it appeals to a much larger part of our country than a lot of the stuff that we -- myself included -- have been focused on for the last 20 years of my career.”

She called the cowboy “the first true, great American hero.”

“You look at superheroes and you look at Marvel and DC, and you're like, what's more iconic than the cowboy?” Share said.

Veteran entertainment executive Peter Chernin's investment fund The Chernin Group became the principal investor in MeatEater in 2018, a blossoming media brand built around outdoorsman Steven Rinella, a best-selling author, podcaster and host of a forthcoming History Channel series, “Hunting History.”

Some, however, feel sidelined by Hollywood’s pursuit of the American heartland. They worry that executives have become fearful of being branded "woke," a label hurled at Walt Disney by Florida Governor and former Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

One television showrunner, who was in the final phase of negotiations for a streaming series featuring a diverse cast, learned a day after Trump’s election that the project would not go forward. The showrunner, who requested anonymity for fear of retaliation, saw a correlation between the programming decision and Trump’s victory.

Another development executive shared an email from one network executive, who rejected a project as too "political."

Earlier this year, the makers of "The Apprentice," a biopic about Trump, struggled to find a distributor even after an enthusiastic reception at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

An attorney for Trump sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers. Briarcliff Entertainment released the movie in October, and stars Sebastian Stan and Jeremy Strong were nominated for Golden Globe awards.

This week, Disney said it had removed a transgender storyline from upcoming Pixar animation series "Win or Lose." The character will remain in the show, but the few lines of dialogue that reference the character's gender identity have been removed.

"When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline," a Disney spokesperson said.



Title: Brazilian judge orders Adele song removed over plagiarism claim

Adele is accused of copying a song ‘Mulheres’, a national hit since the 1990s

Adele waves to singer Beyonce who is in the audience as she and co-song writer Greg Kurstin (not pictured) accept the Grammy for Song of the Year for "Hello" at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US , Feb 12, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson

A judge in Rio de Janeiro has ordered the global removal of a 2015 song by British singer Adele due to a plagiarism claim by a Brazilian musician, which Universal Music is fighting on appeal.

The ruling, made public on Monday, came in a case filed this year by Toninho Geraes, whose compositions were made famous by some of Brazil's most acclaimed samba singers.

Geraes accused Adele of copying his song "Mulheres", a national hit since the 1990s. His lawyers uploaded to YouTube a comparison of that song and Adele's "Million Years Ago".

"The ruling shows that the Brazilian justice system is strong and that injuries to Brazilian artists won't be ignored," said Fredimio Biasotto Trotta, a lawyer for Geraes.

The decision orders Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music to immediately cease "using, reproducing, editing, distributing, or commercializing" the song by any means on streaming or sharing platforms, without Geraes' consent. It set a fine of 50,000 reais ($8,080.94) if the companies fail to comply with the order.

The Berne Convention, an international treaty, orders other signatory countries, including the US, to comply with legal decisions regarding copyright, Trotta said.

Geraes' lawyers are now notifying streaming services, such as Spotify SPOT.N and Deezer, to withdraw the song in Brazil and globally. On Wednesday morning, the song was still widely available.

Universal appealed the decision on Tuesday, arguing there was no plagiarism, only an "accidental melodic similarity" due to the use of "musical clichés."

Both Adele and Geraes have contracts with Universal, but the Brazilian musician has been trying to terminate his contract with the company due to his plagiarism claim, his lawyer said.

"I felt very disrespected," Geraes told Reuters. He is asking the courts for compensation of more than $150,000.

Lawyers representing Universal Music declined to comment, and Sony Music did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

Geraes learned of the similarities between the two songs after a friend, who is also a composer, heard Adele's "Million Years Ago" at a party in 2021.



Title: Tabla legend Zakir Hussain dies at 73

The musician was the winner of 4 Grammy awards and the Padma Vibhushan, India’s second-highest civilian honour

Tabla maestro Zakir Hussain has died at a hospital in the US’s San Francisco, reports Indian broadcaster NDTV. He was 73.

Zakir died from complications due to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, according to a statement from the family.

He had been in hospital for the past two weeks and was shifted to intensive care when his condition deteriorated.

Zakir’s sister Khurshid Aulia said he passed away "very peacefully".

"He passed away very peacefully after the ventilation machine was switched off. This was 4pm San Francisco time," she told PTI.

The esteemed tabla great leaves behind a wife and two daughters.

"He leaves behind an extraordinary legacy cherished by countless music lovers around the globe, with an influence that will resonate for generations to come,” the family said.

Zakir was born on Mar 9, 1951, the son of heralded tabla master Ustad Alla Rakha.

Over a career that spanned six decades, he worked with renowned artists in India and abroad. His collaborators included Indian icons Ravi Shankar, Ali Akbar Khan and Shivkumar Sharma, as well as groundbreaking work with John McLaughlin, Yo-Yo Ma, Charles Lloyd, Bela Fleck, Edgar Meyer, Mickey Hart and George Harrison.

One of India’s most celebrated classical musicians, Zakir received the Padma Shri in 1988, Padma Bhushan in 2002, and the Padma Vibhushan -- India’s second-highest civilian honour -- in 2023.

He was also acclaimed on the international stage, taking home four Grammy Awards, including three at the ceremony earlier this year.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan hailed Zakir as "a beacon of India's rich musical heritage and a true custodian of classical traditions".

"Ustad Zakir Hussain was instrumental in popularising Indian music across the globe, serving as a beacon of India's rich musical heritage. A true custodian of classical traditions, his contributions to the arts remain unparalleled. His passing is a monumental loss to culture and humanity. Heartfelt condolences to his loved ones," he said.

Expressing his condolences to Zakir's family, Congress President Mallikarjun Kharge called him a "cultural ambassador who bridged borders and generations with his mesmerising rhythms".

"The Padma Vibhushan tabla maestro and percussionist, gloriously took forward the legacy of his father with exceptional performances and collaborations. His numerous national and international honours are a testament to this.”



Title: Allu Arjun vows cooperation in probe into woman's death at 'Pushpa 2' premiere after release from jail

The South Indian star was arrested over a stampede that killed a woman and injured a child at a screening of his latest blockbuster

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun has promised to cooperate in the probe into the stampede at the screening of his latest blockbuster 'Pushpa 2: The Rule' that killed a woman and seriously injured a child in Hyderabad following his release from jail.

He stressed that he is a law-abiding citizen and expressed his condolences to the victim's family after being freed on bail on Saturday, Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

"I want to thank all my fans. There is nothing to worry about. I would like to once again express my condolences to the family. It was an unfortunate incident. We are sorry for what happened," he said.

Allu Arjun was arrested on Friday in connection with the fatal incident at Hyberabad's Sandhya Theatre on Dec 4. Despite securing bail from a Telangana High Court, he had to spend the night behind bars as the jail authorities did not received a copy of the bail order until late last night.

The actor's counsel Ashok Reddy pointed the finger at the authorities for the delay in his release from jail. "The High Court order is very specific. Forthwith, the moment you [prison authorities] receive the order, [they should] release him. Despite the clear order, they have not released, they have to answer. This is an illegal detention. We will take legal steps," he is quoted as saying by NDTV.

Hours after Allu Arjun's arrest, the victim's husband said that he was "ready to withdraw the case".

"I was not aware of the arrest. Allu Arjun has nothing to do with the stampede in which my wife passed away," he said.

ALLU ARJUN THANKS SUPPORTERS

After an emotional reunion with his family, the actor expressed gratitude to everyone who supported him following his arrest, especially his fans. He reiterated that the stampede and subsequent death of the woman were "purely accidental and unintentional, with no connection to me".

He added that he had been visiting Sandhya Theatre for 20 years and had never witnessed such an incident before.

WHAT HAPPENED ON DEC 4?

A 35-year-old woman died and her eight-year-old son was hospitalised after a stampede broke out as thousands of fans gathered to catch a glimpse of Allu Arjun at the premiere of the blockbuster Pushpa 2.

WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?

In the aftermath of the incident, city police filed a case against the actor, his security team, and the theatre management based on a complaint lodged by the woman's family.

Reacting to the arrest, Rashmika Mandanna, Arjun's Pushpa 2 co-star, said she was "disheartened to see everything being blamed on a single individual".

Actor Varun Dhawan also weighed in, saying, "Safety protocols can't be solely the responsibility of an actor. We can inform people around us, but the incident was tragic, and I express my condolences. However, the blame can't rest on one person alone."



Title: Actor Allu Arjun arrested after woman's death in 'Pushpa 2' screening stampede

A stampede erupted at Hyderabad's Sandhya Theatre after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance during the film's premiere

Indian police have arrested Telugu superstar Allu Arjun in connection with a stampede that occurred outside a Hyderabad theatre and led to a woman's death.

The stampede broke out after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance at the theatre during a screening of his new film 'Pusha 2: The Rule', Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

Earlier, Hyderabad police filed a case naming the 41-year-old actor and others, including his security team members and the management of the Sandhya Theatre.

The victim was a 35-year-old woman. Her eight-year-old son was also injured in the stampede that erupted as the massive crowd jostled and shoved each other to catch a glimpse of Arjun upon his unannounced arrival.

"There was no intimation from the side of theatre management or actors' team... that they will be visiting the theatre..." Hyderabad Police Commissioner CV Anand had said.

He also noted that no separate entry, or exit, were provided, even though the theatre authorities knew they were coming.

Arjun arrived at the theatre at 9:30pm. He used the main entrance and spent 15-20 minutes outside. As news of his arrival spread, hundreds of people thronged to catch a glimpse of him.

His security team started pushing the crowd back and that aggravated the situation.

Revathi, the deceased woman, and her son felt "suffocated", police said. They were pulled out of the crowd by police who performed emergency first aid and shifted them to a nearby hospital.

Arjun, by this time, had gone into the theatre, but the crowd had continued building in the lobby.

The actor has since announced assistance of Rs 2.5 million for the woman's family, and also promised to take care of the medical expenses of the child, whose condition was critical.



Title: Another fan dies during screening of Allu Arjun's 'Pushpa-2' in India

A woman had previously been killed in a stampede while attending the Allu Arjun starrer's premiere in Hyderabad

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun's "Pushpa 2: The Rule" has been marred by the death of another viewer during a screening at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh.

Despite dominating the Indian box office since its release, the film has now been overshadowed by two deaths in theatres, sparking widespread concern.

According to The Hindustan Times, the latest incident occurred on Monday when the body of 35-year-old Harijana Madhannappa was found at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh' Rayadurgam.

Ravi Babu, an Andhra Pradesh police official, said that Madhannappa attended a 2:30pm screening on Monday.

He allegedly arrived intoxicated and continued drinking inside the theatre, according to Babu. Around 6pm, cleaning staff discovered him unresponsive, he said.

Police noted that Madhannappa, a father of four, had a history of alcohol abuse.

The exact cause of death has yet to be determined, but a case has been filed over the matter, Babu said.

Earlier, on Dec 4, 32-year-old Revathi was trampled to death while attending the premiere of "Pushpa 2" in Hyderabad. She was accompanied by her 9-year-old son Sritej, who fainted amid the chaos.

Following the incident, Revathi’s family filed a lawsuit against Allu Arjun, his security team, and the theatre authorities.

In response, Allu Arjun pledged Rs 2.5 million in compensation to Revathi’s family and assured that he would cover all medical expenses for her son Sritej.

Police have launched separate investigations into both incidents.

"Pushpa 2", directed by Sukumar, premiered on Dec 5. Starring Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna, the film has been a box office sensation, earning over Rs 6.45 billion in its first week of release.



