Category: stripe

Title: Mini-skirts of the future: How 2nd wave feminism and fashion influenced ‘Star Trek’

The sci-fi series offers an intriguing glimpse into the fashion discourse of the swinging 60s

The original Star Trek series inspired a franchise that defined the science fiction genre and became a cultural touchstone. To modern viewers, though, the series will immediately seem outdated for its choice of fashion and interior design.

The swinging 60s are alive and well in the future of Star Trek, full of vibrant colours, mod fashions, and unique fabric choices. But what modern viewers may miss is the subtle feminist commentary in its costume design.

The women of the 23rd century, living 300 years in the future, must surely have a range of comfortable and practical choices of clothing. So why do the capable crew members on board – such as communications officer Nyota Uhura – wear miniskirts?

It’s a striking choice bound to raise eyebrows, particularly because ‘The Cage’ - the initial unaired pilot made for the show – largely showed the female crew in long sleeves and trousers.

But, just as the USS Enterprise stepped into the final frontier, exploring uncharted worlds and boldly going where no man had gone before, the women of Starfleet were also unearthing a new undiscovered country through some of the shortest skirts seen on the TV screen.

The driving force was, of course, the 1960s movement for the social and sexual liberation of women. It was a time when women were pouring into the workforce, more active and visible in the economy than before. The commercial availability of the birth control pill also gave women more control over their sexual and reproductive rights. This paradigm shift was also apparent in the fashion of the era. Gone were long skirts, stockings, girdles and petticoats. Instead, the vanguard shifted to the miniskirts and go-go boots off the racks of British designer Mary Quant. The miniskirt became a symbol of the movement, even worn by feminist frontrunners like Germaine Greer and Gloria Steinem.

The miniskirt became so closely associated with the movement that when fashion brand Dior didn't include them in its 1966 show, a group called the 'British Society for the Protection of Mini Skirts' protested outside.

As Star Trek grew into a science fiction institution and trends and tastes changed, the miniskirt fell out of favour. Nichelle Nichols, the actress who played Uhura on the show, was regularly asked questions about the particular choices taken by the production.

"In later years, especially as the women’s movement took hold in the seventies, people began to ask me about my costume,” she said. “Some thought it 'demeaning' for a woman in the command crew to be dressed so sexily. It always surprised me because I never saw it that way. After all, the show was created in the age of the miniskirt, and the crew women’s uniforms were very comfortable.”

“Contrary to what many may think today, no one really saw it as demeaning back then. In fact, the miniskirt was a symbol of sexual liberation. More to the point, though, in the 23rd century, you are respected for your abilities regardless of what you do or do not wear."

With today’s modern lens, the connection to that larger movement is less obvious. But, for its time, the show was quite contemporary and even progressive in its values.

The main cast was composed of a diverse crew of different backgrounds, nationalities, and ethnicities. Uhura, James Doohan’s Scotty, George Takei’s Hikaru Sulu, and Walter Koenig’s officer Pavel Chekov were all important recurring characters. The show took the daring step of depicting a future where people of colour took central roles, where Americans served alongside Russians, and men and women worked together at a time when many women would not consider a career. It’s a look back at a fascinating time, showing us the different ways women can choose to express themselves in different eras. And, even if the miniskirts of the future look outdated today, let’s remember that old fashions have a way of coming back.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Artists and artisans come together at the Faculty of Fine Art to make masks and floats for the Pohela Boishakh procession



Title: When fans turn into foes: The dangers of misplaced online aggression

The anonymity of social media allows people to lash out at any target, regardless of whether they deserve it

The world of social media is constantly changing, with emerging trends ranging from lighthearted goofs to full-blown controversies. Recently, a Bangladeshi clothing page named MEHER posted a picture of a young man named Rehan wearing a Punjabi on Facebook, sparking a flurry of objectifying comments from some female users. While the initial objectification is concerning, the situation took an unexpected turn when other girls, confused by the hype, directed their frustration at the model. This incident underscores a troubling aspect of social media behaviour - misplaced aggression.

Misplaced aggression or displaced aggression occurs when someone experiencing negative emotions vents their anger or frustration onto someone unrelated to the source of their distress. In this case, rather than confronting the objectifying remarks head-on, the girls who were perplexed by Rehan's objectification ultimately turned their wrath on him. As he was easy to identify, he became the target of their annoyance and they began to bully him.

Social media's anonymity can make it easy for people to lash out impulsively. The fast pace of online interactions and the text format can also make it difficult to fully understand the emotions of others and the intention behind their posts. This lack of context can lead to misunderstandings, fueling misplaced aggression. The consequences can be significant.

Sometimes, the real source of our anger is someone we feel afraid to confront, like a boss or parent. Taking it out on someone else who seems "safer" is a release for this pent-up emotion without risking negative consequences.

When we're overwhelmed by anger, we can lash out at the nearest target instead of pinpointing the exact cause. Occasionally, misdirecting our anger is an unconscious way of protecting ourselves. By directing the anger elsewhere, we avoid having to deal with the real motivation for our distress. It is important to recognise that displaced aggression often stems from unresolved emotional issues. Learning healthy ways to manage these emotions can help us avoid taking out our anger on the wrong person.

When someone is angry and acting inappropriately, resisting them may not have the best outcome. It may only fuel their rage and frustration, making the problem worse. But we can try to create a more positive and welcoming social media environment by understanding when our anger is misplaced and taking more care when interacting online.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: What’s next for Christopher Nolan?

After taking home Oscars for Best Director and Best Picture, the future looks as bright as ever for the renowned filmmaker

Only a handful of directors ever reach the status of household names, but Christopher Nolan is definitely one of them. With only a dozen movies to his name, he has carved out an unforgettable mark on the cinema world.

While Nolan is popularly known for his mind-bending narratives and distaste for CGI, his work explores deeper topics of human morality, the nature of time, and the construction of personal activity. His movies are not only blockbusters, they also leave you something to think about. After the cult hit Memento, the superhero crime epic of the Dark Knight trilogy, and the twisty Inception, Nolan swept this year’s Oscars with the biopic Oppenheimer.

With every entry in his filmography, the uproar grows louder. The impressive leads to one inevitable question from his fans – what’s next for Christopher Nolan?

Nolan is notoriously secretive about his upcoming projects. This secrecy only fans the flames of those excited about a glimpse of the next big thing. After all, what other modern director has been able to deliver theatrical experiences unlike any before amid such increasing pressure and sky-high expectations?

So, what could his next project be?

A quirk of his filmography is that he often follows an adapted story with an original one. But, this time, rumours say that he might opt for another adaptation or, possibly, a remake.

One project that might grab his attention is a reimagining of The Prisoner. Originally airing in 1967, the British TV show follows a secret agent spirited away to a strange village when he tenders his resignation. Though the place seems perfect from the outside, its reality is quite different. Without giving too much away, the Patrick McGoohan vehicle is full of mystery, plot twists, and a quirky style that has made it an enduring cult classic and may be right up Nolan’s alley.

There is, of course, another British spy franchise that could use the Nolan touch. As fans of the director may know from his interviews, Nolan loves James Bond. With Daniel Craig set to depart after a decade and a half in the role, speculation is heating up about the future of the beloved series. Rumours are swirling about a meeting between series producer Barbara Broccoli and the eminent director. It would be a massive shot in the arm for the franchise to have its next entry helmed by such an accomplished filmmaker. Nolan, for his part, has continued to deny the gossip.

But, of course, it’s impossible to say for sure. Nolan’s infamous caginess will likely mean that he will deny whatever speculation drums up. The only sure way to get an answer is to wait. The filmmaker has consistently maintained a gap of about three years between his movies. So, until 2027, we’ll have to re-watch his older films to build up the hype.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Things I miss about Ramadan

Have we stopped valuing the small things that meant so much to us when we were young, or is it just the curse of growing up?

There are lots of things I miss about the Ramadans of my childhood:

Going to bed early so I could have Sehri with my family, only to oversleep and substitute breakfast for my last meal instead (This never stopped me from going about telling everyone ‘I am fasting’ with a bright smile)

The half-day fasts I devised from morning Sehri to noon to feel like I was doing my part

Seeing my family pray and immediately taking out a prayer mat, copying their movements, and mumbling along in the hope I was able to follow what my elders were saying in their prayers

Accidentally drinking water, then checking left and right before trying to convince myself, “If no one saw it, then it never happened”

Actually waking up for Sehri on time and staying up after Fajr prayers to see the beautiful sunrise and bask in its golden glow before returning to bed

School being closed for nearly an entire month

The feast the women of the family would spend the entire day making

Sitting patiently at the table and waiting for the Magrib Azaan. Then, praying together with my family for a few minutes before we broke our fast

Accompanying my Ammu or Khala to the door to hand out food to the street kids after breaking our fast. My family would always have some food ready for them

Bragging to friends, classmates and peers about how many days I had fasted

Planning to buy the perfect dress for Eid

Patiently waiting for Eid Day with an eye on the salami I would receive from my elders

Pre-planning all the things I would buy with my Eid salami

Waking up before everyone else on Eid Day, taking a shower, getting dressed up, and going to a nearby friend’s house

Losing track of the time during Eid celebrations and falling asleep with a smile

Now, I look back on those days and feel nostalgic.

It seems like, as time goes on and we grow up, we start feeling less and less excited about the little things that bring joy to our daily lives. Over the years, I’ve lost many of the things that brightened up the days of Ramadan.

What holds us back? Is it the current state of the world? The sorrow of not being able to help those who are suffering?

Are we too drained of emotional energy by the constant reminders that the world is not a happy place?

Looking back at my childhood I think of golden times when I was more present instead of being glued to my phone all the time. When I took an active part in the daily things that make Ramadan a month to remember.

For the sake of those lovely days, I’ve come up with a small plan this year. To be more present and engaged in all the little things I can do with my family – helping to prepare Iftar, setting out plates, going to neighbours’ homes to share Iftar.

Maybe those golden days aren’t gone just yet. Perhaps all I need to do is put in the effort to make this Ramadan as joyous and memorable as those of the past.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



An emerging artist pays tribute to a major influence on her work



Title: Sparks between Gosling, Blunt ignite interest in ‘The Fall Guy’

The sizzling chemistry between the two leads at the Oscars seems to carry over to the upcoming action comedy

‘Barbenheimer’ was the biggest thing in movies last year. The unexpected double bill dominated the imagination of fans worldwide, propelling both films to massive box office success, even at the Oscars. And it was at the Oscars that a couple of stars from each film took to the stage.

Emily Blunt and Ryan Gosling are familiar faces to fans of Hollywood movies, but I had never seen them together before. Their easy, playful banter was magnetic and immediately ignited my curiosity about whether it would translate to on-screen chemistry in their upcoming collaboration The Fall Guy.

Inspired by the 1980s TV series of the same name, the movie tells the story of Colt Seavers (Ryan Gosling), a struggling stuntman past his prime who gets a shot to work on the latest blockbuster featuring action star Tom Ryder (Aaron Taylor-Johnson). To his surprise, the film’s director is his ex-girlfriend Jody Moreno (Emily Blunt). To make things worse, Tom suddenly vanishes under mysterious circumstances. Colt, driven by honour and lingering affection, embarks on a mission to find Tom and salvage Jody’s film.

But, what begins as a man-hunt soon turns into a deadly game of cat and mouse as long-buried secrets surface and plunge characters into deadly peril.

The trailer shows Gosling in top form, melding his action chops from Drive and The Grey Man with the comedic touches from Barbie and The Nice Guys. His connection with Blunt is clear even among the quick snippets and snappy edits. The frisson between the two is undeniable.

The project is in the sturdy hands of director David Leitch, whose filmography includes John Wick, Deadpool 2, and Nobody.

The Fall Guy promises an action-packed ride full of thrills, witty banter, and sizzling chemistry. The two trailers have already racked up millions of views and for good reason. I’m eagerly anticipating the film’s blend of sharp action with humour and relatable characters.

The Fall Guy premiers on May 3 and I, for one, will be early in line for a ticket.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Throwback Thursday: The warm comfort of 'Full House'

The classic sitcom harkens back to a golden age of loving family dynamics and valuable life lessons

A lot of us look back on a golden age in our lives. For many of us, it was our childhoods. That era when everything was warm and comfortable, but still exciting. And few shows capture those feelings with the depth and specificity of Full House.

The American sitcom started in 1987 – before I was even born - became a huge hit, and ran for eight seasons until 1995. Premiering in the heyday of the three-camera sitcom, Full House stood out because of its unusual family dynamics.

The show starts with widower Danny (Bob Saget) asking his brother-in-law Jesse (John Stamos) and best friend Joey (Dave Coulier) to help raise his three girls – the practical DJ (Candace Cameron Bure), the sarcastic Stephanie (Jodie Sweetin), and the precocious Michelle (played jointly by Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen).

The unconventional nature of the main cast’s relationships is what makes the show as the audience follows three flawed kind-hearted men as they take on the task of raising three wonderful, but very different children.

Men rarely take on the job of raising children in our society. But Full House offers a gender role reversal, making all of the parental figures male in a direct challenge to social norms and traditions. But that doesn’t mean the kids suffer from a lack of feminine influence in their lives.

Each of the adults finds ways to connect with and balance their masculine and feminine energies to ensure that the kids grow up in an environment that provides them with the necessary nourishment and love.

Danny is a great father, playing the role of the responsible one. His position as the breadwinner burdens him with additional obligations, but he learns to balance his work responsibilities with the time he needs to devote to his daughters. He’s the grown up of the show – making the decisions necessary to ensure a good future for his kids.

Joey, his best friend, is the show’s goofball. He works as a stand-up comedian, often imitating a slew of cartoon characters. Though he’s often the silliest character, his indirect approach can cut to the heart of the matter. Through his antics, he can tackle heavy topics without making things dark and ends up sneaking in words of wisdom under the guise of humour.

But the scene stealer of the show is Uncle Jesse - the instant heartthrob with his Elvis aesthetic and intense charisma. And he’s also the character who grows and changes the most throughout the show. He starts off as something of an irresponsible layabout who’s too focused on his hair and dreams of rock stardom to really grow up. But, as he takes care of his nieces and becomes closer with them, he comes to see things – and himself – in a new light.

Watching these men develop more as people alongside the children they raise is like free therapy. You’ll laugh, you’ll cry, and maybe even pick up some valuable lessons along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Melodies of grief: What I learnt about myself by playing the kalimba

As I learned to play the African musical instrument, emotions I had long hidden away floated to the surface

I’ve always been a quiet person. I never had the easiest time with words or people. The skies were the only ones who knew my stories.

I often thought that those who could express themselves without words were lucky.

I longed to be able to do that. To find an instrument that could convey my feelings. Something that could carry a melody, but was easy to hide. I wanted a way to enjoy playing music without bothering other people.

That’s when I first learned about the kalimba.

The kalimba is a modern interpretation of an African instrument, traditional to the Shona people of Zimbabwe. It consists of a wooden board attached to staggered metal tines. You hold it in your hands and pluck at the prongs with your fingers and thumbs.

I thought it was perfect for me – small, unassuming, with a soft, pleasant sound.

What I didn’t expect was my emotional reaction to playing it.

The first song I learned was the American country standard ‘You Are My Sunshine’. My friends and I thought it was a pretty, if simple, song.

But, when I got to the part where the singer says, “I dreamed I held you in my arms, but when I woke, dear, I was mistaken,” I felt tears welling up.

In that instant, I was thinking of Mickey.

Mickey was my pet. He died when he was only four months old. I still craved the touch of his little paws. Playing the song stirred my memories of holding him.

Since his death, I had locked that sadness away, never confronting it. But, as I plucked at my kalimba, it bubbled up inside me, demanding to be acknowledged.

For the first time, instead of turning away, I confronted it. And the outcome of that confrontation was the music. It felt cathartic.

I then turned to other songs that had resonated with me, like ‘Runaway’ and ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’. Through the kalimba I explored the emotional complexity of lines like, "And I was running far away; would I run off the world someday?" and "Mama, I don't want to die; I sometimes wish I'd never been born at all."

As the instrument resonated in my hand, I looked into the depths of my grief. I saw the pain that had lingered through a thousand tiny cuts and deep, wounding gashes. Places that scar tissue had covered, but not healed. I felt the demands they had made on me through the years and acknowledged that hurt.

The music of the kalimba comforted me, but it also pushed me to grow and become stronger.

Recently, I played the song ‘500 Miles’. One line stuck with me - "Lord, I can't go back home this way." At that moment I realised that this was only the start of the journey. There were more emotions to uncover and truths to find.

Through the simple act of playing the kalimba, I’ve discovered the truth of the old idea that music can illuminate the darkest corners of our souls.

Now, alongside the skies, the kalimba has started to hear all my stories. But they are still a bit different. The skies know all the questions I have asked them throughout my life. The kalimba has started unpacking the answers.

Sometimes, though, it can be overwhelming. Sometimes my exploration hits a spot that is too sharp and raw. The last song I tried to play was ‘Time in a Bottle’. It completely eluded me. Sometimes I don’t even want to look at the kalimba.

There is still a long way to go on my emotional journey. For now, I’m taking a rest stop. But, when I’m ready, I know the kalimba will be there to guide me along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Bangladeshi expats send over $2 billion remittance in three weeks of December

It marks five consecutive months with over $2 billion in remittances

In the first 21 days of December 2024, expatriates have sent nearly $2.07 billion in remittances to their families and beneficiaries.

In contrast, $1.72 billion was received in the first 23 days of November.

Throughout the entire month of November, $2.19 billion in remittances came through banking channels.

On Sunday, Bangladesh Bank released an updated report revealing that remittances exceeded $2 billion in three weeks, marking five consecutive months with over $2 billion in remittances.

Since April this year, expatriates have been sending more than $2 billion each month, with the exception of July when the figure dipped below this threshold.

Commenting on the upward trend, Syed Mahbubur Rahman, managing director of Mutual Trust Bank, told bdnews24.com: "The remittance rate through banking channels has increased from before, which is why more remittances are coming."

In addition to a 2.5 percent incentive, expatriates are receiving over Tk120 per dollar when sending money through banks. Bankers believe this has significantly boosted remittances through banking channels.

In May of this year, the central bank introduced the "crawling peg" system to determine the dollar exchange rate, causing the dollar rate to jump from Tk 110 to 117. Later, the remittance rate through banking channels was set at Tk 120 per dollar.

Thanks to the positive trend in remittances, $11.11 billion was received during the five months from July to November of the current 2024–25 fiscal year.

This marks a 26.40 percent increase compared with $8.79 billion during the same period in the previous fiscal year.



Title: WB, ADB to give $1.1bn in support for Yunus govt

The interim government hopes the funds will be made available to them in December

The Ministry of Finance says that the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have approved $1.1 billion in budget support for the interim government led by Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus.

The government hopes the funds will be made available this December.

The WB has approved two budget support funds amounting to $500 million and the ADB has approved $600 million in support to accelerate the interim government’s reform and development activities.

In addition to the budget support, the WB has also approved $379 million for the health and nutrition sector and $280 million in project support for developing the water supply system in Chattogram.

On Dec 18, a loan agreement of $600 million was signed between the Bangladesh government and the ADP for the programme titled “Strengthening Economic Management and Governance Program”. The programme was formulated under an initiative by the Finance Division.

On Dec 19, the WB approved $500 million in budget support for Bangladesh. It is providing the funds under the “Second Bangladesh Green and Climate Resilient Development Credit”, which aims to support reforms to help the country's transition to green and climate-resilient development.



Title: Inflation figures are not manipulated, reflect reality: Finance Advisor Salehuddin

The finance advisor dismisses claims of manipulation, clarifies the causes behind rising inflation rates

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has clarified that the rising inflation rate is a true reflection of the economy, rejecting claims of manipulation.

He explained that the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, or BBS, was instructed to release the data that was available, with no attempt to hide information.

Speaking at the launch of the sixth edition of the Banking Almanac at Dhaka's CIRDAP auditorium on Saturday, Salehuddin acknowledged past discrepancies in data related to inflation and gross domestic product, or GDP, attributing them to both unintentional mistakes and attempts by policymakers to conceal information.

Despite multiple interest rate hikes, inflation has continued to rise in Bangladesh, hitting 11.38 percent in November, up from 10.87 percent in the previous month.

This means that a basket of goods and services that cost Tk 100 in November 2023 would cost Tk 111.38 in November 2024.

The finance advisor said that the interim government is not here to show off its capacity, but to address discrepancies in the last 15 years of data.

He said efforts are underway to correct and revise this information, which was previously concealed.

He also said donor organisations have raised questions about the issue, but the interim government have clarifying that the earlier data was hidden and that they are now presenting the correct figures.

The advisor also highlighted issues in the capital markets, criticising investors for buying worthless "Z-category" shares with no real value, warning that these will soon become worthless.

He urged investors to be cautious and criticised market players and regulators for their roles in the ongoing issues.



Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



