Category: https://bdnews24.com/stripe

Title: Mini-skirts of the future: How 2nd wave feminism and fashion influenced ‘Star Trek’

The sci-fi series offers an intriguing glimpse into the fashion discourse of the swinging 60s

The original Star Trek series inspired a franchise that defined the science fiction genre and became a cultural touchstone. To modern viewers, though, the series will immediately seem outdated for its choice of fashion and interior design.

The swinging 60s are alive and well in the future of Star Trek, full of vibrant colours, mod fashions, and unique fabric choices. But what modern viewers may miss is the subtle feminist commentary in its costume design.

The women of the 23rd century, living 300 years in the future, must surely have a range of comfortable and practical choices of clothing. So why do the capable crew members on board – such as communications officer Nyota Uhura – wear miniskirts?

It’s a striking choice bound to raise eyebrows, particularly because ‘The Cage’ - the initial unaired pilot made for the show – largely showed the female crew in long sleeves and trousers.

But, just as the USS Enterprise stepped into the final frontier, exploring uncharted worlds and boldly going where no man had gone before, the women of Starfleet were also unearthing a new undiscovered country through some of the shortest skirts seen on the TV screen.

The driving force was, of course, the 1960s movement for the social and sexual liberation of women. It was a time when women were pouring into the workforce, more active and visible in the economy than before. The commercial availability of the birth control pill also gave women more control over their sexual and reproductive rights. This paradigm shift was also apparent in the fashion of the era. Gone were long skirts, stockings, girdles and petticoats. Instead, the vanguard shifted to the miniskirts and go-go boots off the racks of British designer Mary Quant. The miniskirt became a symbol of the movement, even worn by feminist frontrunners like Germaine Greer and Gloria Steinem.

The miniskirt became so closely associated with the movement that when fashion brand Dior didn't include them in its 1966 show, a group called the 'British Society for the Protection of Mini Skirts' protested outside.

As Star Trek grew into a science fiction institution and trends and tastes changed, the miniskirt fell out of favour. Nichelle Nichols, the actress who played Uhura on the show, was regularly asked questions about the particular choices taken by the production.

"In later years, especially as the women’s movement took hold in the seventies, people began to ask me about my costume,” she said. “Some thought it 'demeaning' for a woman in the command crew to be dressed so sexily. It always surprised me because I never saw it that way. After all, the show was created in the age of the miniskirt, and the crew women’s uniforms were very comfortable.”

“Contrary to what many may think today, no one really saw it as demeaning back then. In fact, the miniskirt was a symbol of sexual liberation. More to the point, though, in the 23rd century, you are respected for your abilities regardless of what you do or do not wear."

With today’s modern lens, the connection to that larger movement is less obvious. But, for its time, the show was quite contemporary and even progressive in its values.

The main cast was composed of a diverse crew of different backgrounds, nationalities, and ethnicities. Uhura, James Doohan’s Scotty, George Takei’s Hikaru Sulu, and Walter Koenig’s officer Pavel Chekov were all important recurring characters. The show took the daring step of depicting a future where people of colour took central roles, where Americans served alongside Russians, and men and women worked together at a time when many women would not consider a career. It’s a look back at a fascinating time, showing us the different ways women can choose to express themselves in different eras. And, even if the miniskirts of the future look outdated today, let’s remember that old fashions have a way of coming back.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Artists and artisans come together at the Faculty of Fine Art to make masks and floats for the Pohela Boishakh procession



Title: When fans turn into foes: The dangers of misplaced online aggression

The anonymity of social media allows people to lash out at any target, regardless of whether they deserve it

The world of social media is constantly changing, with emerging trends ranging from lighthearted goofs to full-blown controversies. Recently, a Bangladeshi clothing page named MEHER posted a picture of a young man named Rehan wearing a Punjabi on Facebook, sparking a flurry of objectifying comments from some female users. While the initial objectification is concerning, the situation took an unexpected turn when other girls, confused by the hype, directed their frustration at the model. This incident underscores a troubling aspect of social media behaviour - misplaced aggression.

Misplaced aggression or displaced aggression occurs when someone experiencing negative emotions vents their anger or frustration onto someone unrelated to the source of their distress. In this case, rather than confronting the objectifying remarks head-on, the girls who were perplexed by Rehan's objectification ultimately turned their wrath on him. As he was easy to identify, he became the target of their annoyance and they began to bully him.

Social media's anonymity can make it easy for people to lash out impulsively. The fast pace of online interactions and the text format can also make it difficult to fully understand the emotions of others and the intention behind their posts. This lack of context can lead to misunderstandings, fueling misplaced aggression. The consequences can be significant.

Sometimes, the real source of our anger is someone we feel afraid to confront, like a boss or parent. Taking it out on someone else who seems "safer" is a release for this pent-up emotion without risking negative consequences.

When we're overwhelmed by anger, we can lash out at the nearest target instead of pinpointing the exact cause. Occasionally, misdirecting our anger is an unconscious way of protecting ourselves. By directing the anger elsewhere, we avoid having to deal with the real motivation for our distress. It is important to recognise that displaced aggression often stems from unresolved emotional issues. Learning healthy ways to manage these emotions can help us avoid taking out our anger on the wrong person.

When someone is angry and acting inappropriately, resisting them may not have the best outcome. It may only fuel their rage and frustration, making the problem worse. But we can try to create a more positive and welcoming social media environment by understanding when our anger is misplaced and taking more care when interacting online.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: What’s next for Christopher Nolan?

After taking home Oscars for Best Director and Best Picture, the future looks as bright as ever for the renowned filmmaker

Only a handful of directors ever reach the status of household names, but Christopher Nolan is definitely one of them. With only a dozen movies to his name, he has carved out an unforgettable mark on the cinema world.

While Nolan is popularly known for his mind-bending narratives and distaste for CGI, his work explores deeper topics of human morality, the nature of time, and the construction of personal activity. His movies are not only blockbusters, they also leave you something to think about. After the cult hit Memento, the superhero crime epic of the Dark Knight trilogy, and the twisty Inception, Nolan swept this year’s Oscars with the biopic Oppenheimer.

With every entry in his filmography, the uproar grows louder. The impressive leads to one inevitable question from his fans – what’s next for Christopher Nolan?

Nolan is notoriously secretive about his upcoming projects. This secrecy only fans the flames of those excited about a glimpse of the next big thing. After all, what other modern director has been able to deliver theatrical experiences unlike any before amid such increasing pressure and sky-high expectations?

So, what could his next project be?

A quirk of his filmography is that he often follows an adapted story with an original one. But, this time, rumours say that he might opt for another adaptation or, possibly, a remake.

One project that might grab his attention is a reimagining of The Prisoner. Originally airing in 1967, the British TV show follows a secret agent spirited away to a strange village when he tenders his resignation. Though the place seems perfect from the outside, its reality is quite different. Without giving too much away, the Patrick McGoohan vehicle is full of mystery, plot twists, and a quirky style that has made it an enduring cult classic and may be right up Nolan’s alley.

There is, of course, another British spy franchise that could use the Nolan touch. As fans of the director may know from his interviews, Nolan loves James Bond. With Daniel Craig set to depart after a decade and a half in the role, speculation is heating up about the future of the beloved series. Rumours are swirling about a meeting between series producer Barbara Broccoli and the eminent director. It would be a massive shot in the arm for the franchise to have its next entry helmed by such an accomplished filmmaker. Nolan, for his part, has continued to deny the gossip.

But, of course, it’s impossible to say for sure. Nolan’s infamous caginess will likely mean that he will deny whatever speculation drums up. The only sure way to get an answer is to wait. The filmmaker has consistently maintained a gap of about three years between his movies. So, until 2027, we’ll have to re-watch his older films to build up the hype.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Things I miss about Ramadan

Have we stopped valuing the small things that meant so much to us when we were young, or is it just the curse of growing up?

There are lots of things I miss about the Ramadans of my childhood:

Going to bed early so I could have Sehri with my family, only to oversleep and substitute breakfast for my last meal instead (This never stopped me from going about telling everyone ‘I am fasting’ with a bright smile)

The half-day fasts I devised from morning Sehri to noon to feel like I was doing my part

Seeing my family pray and immediately taking out a prayer mat, copying their movements, and mumbling along in the hope I was able to follow what my elders were saying in their prayers

Accidentally drinking water, then checking left and right before trying to convince myself, “If no one saw it, then it never happened”

Actually waking up for Sehri on time and staying up after Fajr prayers to see the beautiful sunrise and bask in its golden glow before returning to bed

School being closed for nearly an entire month

The feast the women of the family would spend the entire day making

Sitting patiently at the table and waiting for the Magrib Azaan. Then, praying together with my family for a few minutes before we broke our fast

Accompanying my Ammu or Khala to the door to hand out food to the street kids after breaking our fast. My family would always have some food ready for them

Bragging to friends, classmates and peers about how many days I had fasted

Planning to buy the perfect dress for Eid

Patiently waiting for Eid Day with an eye on the salami I would receive from my elders

Pre-planning all the things I would buy with my Eid salami

Waking up before everyone else on Eid Day, taking a shower, getting dressed up, and going to a nearby friend’s house

Losing track of the time during Eid celebrations and falling asleep with a smile

Now, I look back on those days and feel nostalgic.

It seems like, as time goes on and we grow up, we start feeling less and less excited about the little things that bring joy to our daily lives. Over the years, I’ve lost many of the things that brightened up the days of Ramadan.

What holds us back? Is it the current state of the world? The sorrow of not being able to help those who are suffering?

Are we too drained of emotional energy by the constant reminders that the world is not a happy place?

Looking back at my childhood I think of golden times when I was more present instead of being glued to my phone all the time. When I took an active part in the daily things that make Ramadan a month to remember.

For the sake of those lovely days, I’ve come up with a small plan this year. To be more present and engaged in all the little things I can do with my family – helping to prepare Iftar, setting out plates, going to neighbours’ homes to share Iftar.

Maybe those golden days aren’t gone just yet. Perhaps all I need to do is put in the effort to make this Ramadan as joyous and memorable as those of the past.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



An emerging artist pays tribute to a major influence on her work



Title: Sparks between Gosling, Blunt ignite interest in ‘The Fall Guy’

The sizzling chemistry between the two leads at the Oscars seems to carry over to the upcoming action comedy

‘Barbenheimer’ was the biggest thing in movies last year. The unexpected double bill dominated the imagination of fans worldwide, propelling both films to massive box office success, even at the Oscars. And it was at the Oscars that a couple of stars from each film took to the stage.

Emily Blunt and Ryan Gosling are familiar faces to fans of Hollywood movies, but I had never seen them together before. Their easy, playful banter was magnetic and immediately ignited my curiosity about whether it would translate to on-screen chemistry in their upcoming collaboration The Fall Guy.

Inspired by the 1980s TV series of the same name, the movie tells the story of Colt Seavers (Ryan Gosling), a struggling stuntman past his prime who gets a shot to work on the latest blockbuster featuring action star Tom Ryder (Aaron Taylor-Johnson). To his surprise, the film’s director is his ex-girlfriend Jody Moreno (Emily Blunt). To make things worse, Tom suddenly vanishes under mysterious circumstances. Colt, driven by honour and lingering affection, embarks on a mission to find Tom and salvage Jody’s film.

But, what begins as a man-hunt soon turns into a deadly game of cat and mouse as long-buried secrets surface and plunge characters into deadly peril.

The trailer shows Gosling in top form, melding his action chops from Drive and The Grey Man with the comedic touches from Barbie and The Nice Guys. His connection with Blunt is clear even among the quick snippets and snappy edits. The frisson between the two is undeniable.

The project is in the sturdy hands of director David Leitch, whose filmography includes John Wick, Deadpool 2, and Nobody.

The Fall Guy promises an action-packed ride full of thrills, witty banter, and sizzling chemistry. The two trailers have already racked up millions of views and for good reason. I’m eagerly anticipating the film’s blend of sharp action with humour and relatable characters.

The Fall Guy premiers on May 3 and I, for one, will be early in line for a ticket.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Throwback Thursday: The warm comfort of 'Full House'

The classic sitcom harkens back to a golden age of loving family dynamics and valuable life lessons

A lot of us look back on a golden age in our lives. For many of us, it was our childhoods. That era when everything was warm and comfortable, but still exciting. And few shows capture those feelings with the depth and specificity of Full House.

The American sitcom started in 1987 – before I was even born - became a huge hit, and ran for eight seasons until 1995. Premiering in the heyday of the three-camera sitcom, Full House stood out because of its unusual family dynamics.

The show starts with widower Danny (Bob Saget) asking his brother-in-law Jesse (John Stamos) and best friend Joey (Dave Coulier) to help raise his three girls – the practical DJ (Candace Cameron Bure), the sarcastic Stephanie (Jodie Sweetin), and the precocious Michelle (played jointly by Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen).

The unconventional nature of the main cast’s relationships is what makes the show as the audience follows three flawed kind-hearted men as they take on the task of raising three wonderful, but very different children.

Men rarely take on the job of raising children in our society. But Full House offers a gender role reversal, making all of the parental figures male in a direct challenge to social norms and traditions. But that doesn’t mean the kids suffer from a lack of feminine influence in their lives.

Each of the adults finds ways to connect with and balance their masculine and feminine energies to ensure that the kids grow up in an environment that provides them with the necessary nourishment and love.

Danny is a great father, playing the role of the responsible one. His position as the breadwinner burdens him with additional obligations, but he learns to balance his work responsibilities with the time he needs to devote to his daughters. He’s the grown up of the show – making the decisions necessary to ensure a good future for his kids.

Joey, his best friend, is the show’s goofball. He works as a stand-up comedian, often imitating a slew of cartoon characters. Though he’s often the silliest character, his indirect approach can cut to the heart of the matter. Through his antics, he can tackle heavy topics without making things dark and ends up sneaking in words of wisdom under the guise of humour.

But the scene stealer of the show is Uncle Jesse - the instant heartthrob with his Elvis aesthetic and intense charisma. And he’s also the character who grows and changes the most throughout the show. He starts off as something of an irresponsible layabout who’s too focused on his hair and dreams of rock stardom to really grow up. But, as he takes care of his nieces and becomes closer with them, he comes to see things – and himself – in a new light.

Watching these men develop more as people alongside the children they raise is like free therapy. You’ll laugh, you’ll cry, and maybe even pick up some valuable lessons along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Melodies of grief: What I learnt about myself by playing the kalimba

As I learned to play the African musical instrument, emotions I had long hidden away floated to the surface

I’ve always been a quiet person. I never had the easiest time with words or people. The skies were the only ones who knew my stories.

I often thought that those who could express themselves without words were lucky.

I longed to be able to do that. To find an instrument that could convey my feelings. Something that could carry a melody, but was easy to hide. I wanted a way to enjoy playing music without bothering other people.

That’s when I first learned about the kalimba.

The kalimba is a modern interpretation of an African instrument, traditional to the Shona people of Zimbabwe. It consists of a wooden board attached to staggered metal tines. You hold it in your hands and pluck at the prongs with your fingers and thumbs.

I thought it was perfect for me – small, unassuming, with a soft, pleasant sound.

What I didn’t expect was my emotional reaction to playing it.

The first song I learned was the American country standard ‘You Are My Sunshine’. My friends and I thought it was a pretty, if simple, song.

But, when I got to the part where the singer says, “I dreamed I held you in my arms, but when I woke, dear, I was mistaken,” I felt tears welling up.

In that instant, I was thinking of Mickey.

Mickey was my pet. He died when he was only four months old. I still craved the touch of his little paws. Playing the song stirred my memories of holding him.

Since his death, I had locked that sadness away, never confronting it. But, as I plucked at my kalimba, it bubbled up inside me, demanding to be acknowledged.

For the first time, instead of turning away, I confronted it. And the outcome of that confrontation was the music. It felt cathartic.

I then turned to other songs that had resonated with me, like ‘Runaway’ and ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’. Through the kalimba I explored the emotional complexity of lines like, "And I was running far away; would I run off the world someday?" and "Mama, I don't want to die; I sometimes wish I'd never been born at all."

As the instrument resonated in my hand, I looked into the depths of my grief. I saw the pain that had lingered through a thousand tiny cuts and deep, wounding gashes. Places that scar tissue had covered, but not healed. I felt the demands they had made on me through the years and acknowledged that hurt.

The music of the kalimba comforted me, but it also pushed me to grow and become stronger.

Recently, I played the song ‘500 Miles’. One line stuck with me - "Lord, I can't go back home this way." At that moment I realised that this was only the start of the journey. There were more emotions to uncover and truths to find.

Through the simple act of playing the kalimba, I’ve discovered the truth of the old idea that music can illuminate the darkest corners of our souls.

Now, alongside the skies, the kalimba has started to hear all my stories. But they are still a bit different. The skies know all the questions I have asked them throughout my life. The kalimba has started unpacking the answers.

Sometimes, though, it can be overwhelming. Sometimes my exploration hits a spot that is too sharp and raw. The last song I tried to play was ‘Time in a Bottle’. It completely eluded me. Sometimes I don’t even want to look at the kalimba.

There is still a long way to go on my emotional journey. For now, I’m taking a rest stop. But, when I’m ready, I know the kalimba will be there to guide me along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Mayotte cyclone kills several hundred, maybe thousands, in worst storm in century

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital

A view shows damage caused by the Cyclone Chido, in Kaweni, Mayotte, France in this screengrab from a social media video, obtained by Reuters on December 14, 2024. @foulani2.00 via TikTok via REUTERS

Several hundred people and possibly even thousands may have been killed when the most powerful cyclone in nearly a century hit the French Indian Ocean archipelago of Mayotte, a senior local French official said on Sunday.

"I think there will certainly be several hundreds, maybe we will reach a thousand, even several thousands," prefect Francois-Xavier Bieuville said on local media channel Mayotte La 1ere.

Asked about the death toll from Cyclone Chido, the French interior ministry said "it will be difficult to account for all victims" and a figure could not be determined at this stage.

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital. It was the strongest storm in more than 90 years to hit the islands, the forecaster said.

"Honestly, what we are experiencing is a tragedy, you feel like you are in the aftermath of a nuclear war… I saw an entire neighborhood disappear," Mohamed Ishmael, a resident of Mayotte's capital Mamoudzou, told Reuters by phone.

Aerial footage shared by the French gendarmerie showed the wreckage of hundreds of makeshift houses strewn across the hills of one of Mayotte's islands, which have been a focal point for illegal immigration from nearby Comoros.

Local media images showed a mother pushing a newborn baby's crib along the flooded corridor of Mayotte's hospital. Capsized police boats lay onshore while coconut trees had crashed through the roofs of many buildings.

"My thoughts are with our compatriots in Mayotte, who have gone through the most horrific few hours, and who have, for some, lost everything, lost their lives," French President Emmanuel Macron said.

In the last few decades thousands of people have attempted to make the crossing from Comoros, off the coast of East Africa, to Mayotte, which has a higher standard of living and access to the French welfare system.

Over 100,000 undocumented migrants live in Mayotte, according to the French interior ministry.

It was difficult to ascertain the precise death toll after the cyclone, which also raised concerns about access to food, water and sanitation, authorities said.

"For the toll, it's going to be complicated, because Mayotte is a Muslim land where the dead are buried within 24 hours," a French interior ministry official said earlier.

Located nearly 8,000 km (5,000 miles) from Paris, Mayotte is significantly poorer than the rest of France and has grappled with gang violence and social unrest for decades.

More than three-quarters of the people in Mayotte live below the French poverty line. Tensions were stoked earlier this year by a water shortage.

An air bridge was being put in place from Reunion island, another French overseas territory on the other side of Madagascar, the government said.

The disaster is the first challenge faced by Prime Minister Francois Bayrou, days after he was named by Macron following the collapse of the previous government.

The cyclone went on to hit northern Mozambique on Sunday, but the full extent of the impact was not clear. Internet monitor NetBlocks said on X that heavy rain and winds had damaged power and telecommunications infrastructure.

In Comoros, two people were slightly injured, 24 displaced, and 21 homes were destroyed, authorities said.

France colonised Mayotte in 1843 and annexed the whole archipelago, including Comoros, in 1904.

In a 1974 referendum, 95% backed separation but 63% on Mayotte voted to stay French. Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli declared independence in 1975. Mayotte is still ruled from Paris.



Title: Monarch butterfly may gain threatened species status in US

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade

A monarch butterfly flutters in a field of marigolds, the traditional flower believed to guide the dead back to their loved ones, grown for use during Day of the Dead celebrations, in Boquillas, Mexico Oct 20, 2024. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril

The US Fish and Wildlife Service proposed listing the monarch butterfly as a threatened species on Tuesday, citing a significant decline in the iconic black and orange insects that has pushed them toward extinction.

WHY IT'S IMPORTANT

Monarch butterflies, known for migrating thousands of miles (km) across North America, have experienced a decades-long U.S. population decline due to habitat loss caused by human activities such as farming and urban development, widespread use of pesticides and climate change.

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade.

KEY QUOTE

"The iconic monarch butterfly is cherished across North America, captivating children and adults throughout its fascinating lifecycle," US FWS Director Martha Williams said in a statement.

"Despite its fragility, it is remarkably resilient, like many things in nature when we just give them a chance. Science shows that the monarch needs that chance, and this proposed listing invites and builds on unprecedented public participation in shaping monarch conservation efforts," she added

CONTEXT

Despite being recognised as needing federal protection under the Endangered Species Act four years ago, the monarch butterfly waited behind dozens of other species facing more immediate threats.

The ESA, signed into law in 1973, is credited with helping to save the bald eagle, California condor and numerous other animals and plants from extinction. ESA protection makes it illegal to kill or harm species classified as threatened or endangered without a special permit.

BY THE NUMBERS

The eastern migratory monarch population has declined by about 80% since the 1980s, while the western migratory population has dropped by more than 95%. The declines put the western populations at greater than 99% chance of extinction by 2080, according to the FWS.

The agency is proposing to designate 4,395 acres (1,780 hectares) in California as "critical habitat" for the butterflies. Federal agencies are prohibited from destroying or modifying areas with that designation.

WHAT'S NEXT

The public will have until March 12, 2025 to comment on the proposal to list the monarch butterfly. The service will then evaluate the comments and any additional information on the species to determine whether to list the monarch butterfly.



Title: Govt advises people with health issues to stay indoors as air pollution rises

Environment ministry urges mask use for those venturing outside amid alarming air quality

The air quality in Dhaka and its surrounding areas has fluctuated between "unhealthy" and "hazardous," prompting the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to advise individuals at risk to avoid going outside unless necessary.

The ministry recommended using masks for anyone needing to step outdoors in these conditions in a statement on Tuesday.

Citizens were also urged to monitor the environment department’s website for regular updates and take appropriate precautions.

Data from international air quality monitoring platform IQAir showed that Dhaka’s Air Quality Index, or AQI, stood at 193 at 6pm on Tuesday, categorised as "unhealthy."

At that time, Dhaka ranked second among cities with the worst air quality globally.

The AQI worsened after 10pm, remaining above 200—sometimes even exceeding 300—through to the following afternoon.

Air quality levels depend on the concentration of fine particulate matter, such as PM10 and PM2.5, measured in micrograms per cubic metre.

Other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-level ozone also contribute to the AQI.

An AQI score of 51-100 is considered "moderate" or "acceptable."

Scores between 101-150 are "unhealthy for sensitive groups."

Scores between 151-200 indicate "unhealthy" air.

Scores of 201-300 represent "very unhealthy" conditions.

Anything above 300 is deemed "hazardous" or "disastrous."

According to the environment department’s AQI data, Dhaka's air quality has mostly remained above 150 since Oct 12, except for 12 days when it dropped below this level.

During this 59-day period, the AQI exceeded 200 on 13 days.

Last Thursday, Dhaka's AQI hit 335.

To combat air pollution, the environment ministry has issued directives to halt the burning of solid waste, install covers and enclosures at construction sites, transport construction materials under covers, spray water at least twice daily around such sites, and bar the use of old or smoke-producing vehicles on the roads.

Brick kiln operators, factory owners, and the public have also been urged to comply with these measures.

The ministry emphasised that tackling air pollution requires collaborative efforts from the government and citizens.



Title: Extreme heat puts garment factory workers at risk, study shows

The study report urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves

Garment workers come out of a factory during the lunch break as factories remain open despite a countrywide lockdown, in Dhaka, Bangladesh, July 6, 2021. REUTERS

Workers in some of the world's biggest garment manufacturing hubs in Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Pakistan are increasingly exposed to extreme heat as climate change pushes temperatures up, a report found on Sunday, a problem multinational retailers and brands will have to help address.

New European Union regulations make retailers selling in the bloc, like Inditex, H&M and Nike, legally liable for conditions at their suppliers, putting pressure on them to help fund improvements to cool factories they source from.

In Dhaka, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh and Karachi, the number of days with "wet-bulb" temperatures - a measurement that accounts for air temperature as well as humidity - above 30.5 degrees Celsius jumped by 42% in 2020-2024 compared to 2005-2009, researchers at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute found.

Above that threshold, the International Labor Organisation recommends as much rest as work in any given hour to maintain safe core body temperature levels.

The report identified only three retailers - Nike, Levi's, and VF Corp - which specifically include protocols to protect workers from heat exhaustion in their supplier codes of conduct.

COMPANIES WARNED

"We've been talking to brands for ages now about this issue, and they're only now starting to turn their attention to it," Jason Judd, executive director at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute, told Reuters.

"If a brand or retailer knows that temperatures in a production area are excessively high or doing damage to worker health, then they're obligated under this new set of rules to do something about it," he added.

The EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive came into force in July and will start applying to large companies from mid-2027.

Fixes to cool factories could include better ventilation and water evaporative cooling systems, instead of energy-intensive and expensive air conditioning that would increase manufacturers' carbon emissions.

Some factory owners would likely be willing to make such investments themselves, given how heat stress significantly impacts productivity, Judd said, but the EU rules highlight brands' responsibility to address the issue too.

The report also urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves.

Extreme heat and flooding could erase $65 billion in apparel export earnings from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Pakistan and Vietnam by 2030, research from asset manager Schroders and the Global Labor Institute found last year.



Title: 2024 will be the hottest year on record, EU scientists say

The data comes two weeks after a $300bn deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient

This year will be the world's warmest since records began, with extraordinarily high temperatures expected to persist into at least the first few months of 2025, European Union scientists said on Monday.

The data from the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) comes two weeks after UN climate talks yielded a $300-billion deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient to cover the soaring cost of climate-related disasters.

C3S said data from January to November had confirmed 2024 is now certain to be the hottest year on record, and the first in which average global temperatures exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period.

The previous hottest year on record was 2023.

Extreme weather has swept around the world in 2024, with severe drought hitting Italy and South America, fatal floods in Nepal, Sudan and Europe, heatwaves in Mexico, Mali and Saudi Arabia that killed thousands, and disastrous cyclones in the US and the Philippines.

Scientific studies have confirmed the fingerprints of human-caused climate change on all of these disasters.

Last month ranked as the second-warmest November on record after November 2023.

"We're still in near-record-high territory for global temperatures, and that's likely to stay at least for the next few months," Copernicus climate researcher Julien Nicolas told Reuters.

Carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels are the main cause of climate change.

Cutting emissions to net zero - as many governments have pledged to eventually do - will stop global warming from getting worse. Yet despite these green pledges, global CO2 emissions are set to hit a record high this year.

Scientists are also monitoring whether the La Nina weather pattern - which involves the cooling of ocean surface temperatures - could form in 2025.

That could briefly cool global temperatures, though it would not halt the long-term underlying trend of warming caused by emissions. The world is currently in neutral conditions, after El Nino - La Nina's hotter counterpart - ended earlier this year.

"While 2025 might be slightly cooler than 2024, if a La Nina event develops, this does not mean temperatures will be 'safe' or 'normal'," said Friederike Otto, a senior lecturer at Imperial College London.

"We will still experience high temperatures, resulting in dangerous heatwaves, droughts, wildfires and tropical cyclones."

C3S' records go back to 1940, and are cross-checked with global temperature records going back to 1850.



Title: World Court to open climate change hearings

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant

People walk through water at a flooded area affected by rising sea levels and land subsidence in North Jakarta, Indonesia, Nov 20, 2024. REUTERS/Willy Kurniawan

The United Nations' top court on Monday starts hearings on the legal obligation of countries to fight climate change and the consequences for states of contributing to global warming, the outcome of which could influence litigation worldwide.

Vanuatu, one of the small island states that spearheaded the effort to get the International Court of Justice to give a so-called advisory opinion, will be the first of over a hundred states and international organisations to give their views in two weeks of proceedings starting at 10am (0900 GMT).

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant. Experts say the court's eventual opinion on climate change will likely be cited in climate change-driven lawsuits in courts from Europe to Latin America and beyond.

The hearings begin a week after developing nations denounced as woefully inadequate an agreement reached at the COP29 summit for countries to provide $300 billion in annual climate finance by 2035 to help poorer nations cope with climate change.

Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu's special envoy for climate change and the environment, said it was imperative fossil fuels be phased out and more money provided to poorer nations bearing the brunt of climate change, such as his Pacific island nation.

"We would like cumulative historical emissions that cause significant harm to the climate system to be declared unlawful," Regenvanu told Reuters.

Aside from small island states and numerous Western and developing countries, the court will also hear from the world's top two emitters of greenhouse gases, the United States and China. Oil producer group OPEC will also give its views.

The hearings will run until Dec 13. The court's opinion is expected to be delivered in 2025.



