Category: https://bdnews24.com/stripe

Title: Mini-skirts of the future: How 2nd wave feminism and fashion influenced ‘Star Trek’

The sci-fi series offers an intriguing glimpse into the fashion discourse of the swinging 60s

The original Star Trek series inspired a franchise that defined the science fiction genre and became a cultural touchstone. To modern viewers, though, the series will immediately seem outdated for its choice of fashion and interior design.

The swinging 60s are alive and well in the future of Star Trek, full of vibrant colours, mod fashions, and unique fabric choices. But what modern viewers may miss is the subtle feminist commentary in its costume design.

The women of the 23rd century, living 300 years in the future, must surely have a range of comfortable and practical choices of clothing. So why do the capable crew members on board – such as communications officer Nyota Uhura – wear miniskirts?

It’s a striking choice bound to raise eyebrows, particularly because ‘The Cage’ - the initial unaired pilot made for the show – largely showed the female crew in long sleeves and trousers.

But, just as the USS Enterprise stepped into the final frontier, exploring uncharted worlds and boldly going where no man had gone before, the women of Starfleet were also unearthing a new undiscovered country through some of the shortest skirts seen on the TV screen.

The driving force was, of course, the 1960s movement for the social and sexual liberation of women. It was a time when women were pouring into the workforce, more active and visible in the economy than before. The commercial availability of the birth control pill also gave women more control over their sexual and reproductive rights. This paradigm shift was also apparent in the fashion of the era. Gone were long skirts, stockings, girdles and petticoats. Instead, the vanguard shifted to the miniskirts and go-go boots off the racks of British designer Mary Quant. The miniskirt became a symbol of the movement, even worn by feminist frontrunners like Germaine Greer and Gloria Steinem.

The miniskirt became so closely associated with the movement that when fashion brand Dior didn't include them in its 1966 show, a group called the 'British Society for the Protection of Mini Skirts' protested outside.

As Star Trek grew into a science fiction institution and trends and tastes changed, the miniskirt fell out of favour. Nichelle Nichols, the actress who played Uhura on the show, was regularly asked questions about the particular choices taken by the production.

"In later years, especially as the women’s movement took hold in the seventies, people began to ask me about my costume,” she said. “Some thought it 'demeaning' for a woman in the command crew to be dressed so sexily. It always surprised me because I never saw it that way. After all, the show was created in the age of the miniskirt, and the crew women’s uniforms were very comfortable.”

“Contrary to what many may think today, no one really saw it as demeaning back then. In fact, the miniskirt was a symbol of sexual liberation. More to the point, though, in the 23rd century, you are respected for your abilities regardless of what you do or do not wear."

With today’s modern lens, the connection to that larger movement is less obvious. But, for its time, the show was quite contemporary and even progressive in its values.

The main cast was composed of a diverse crew of different backgrounds, nationalities, and ethnicities. Uhura, James Doohan’s Scotty, George Takei’s Hikaru Sulu, and Walter Koenig’s officer Pavel Chekov were all important recurring characters. The show took the daring step of depicting a future where people of colour took central roles, where Americans served alongside Russians, and men and women worked together at a time when many women would not consider a career. It’s a look back at a fascinating time, showing us the different ways women can choose to express themselves in different eras. And, even if the miniskirts of the future look outdated today, let’s remember that old fashions have a way of coming back.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Artists and artisans come together at the Faculty of Fine Art to make masks and floats for the Pohela Boishakh procession



Title: When fans turn into foes: The dangers of misplaced online aggression

The anonymity of social media allows people to lash out at any target, regardless of whether they deserve it

The world of social media is constantly changing, with emerging trends ranging from lighthearted goofs to full-blown controversies. Recently, a Bangladeshi clothing page named MEHER posted a picture of a young man named Rehan wearing a Punjabi on Facebook, sparking a flurry of objectifying comments from some female users. While the initial objectification is concerning, the situation took an unexpected turn when other girls, confused by the hype, directed their frustration at the model. This incident underscores a troubling aspect of social media behaviour - misplaced aggression.

Misplaced aggression or displaced aggression occurs when someone experiencing negative emotions vents their anger or frustration onto someone unrelated to the source of their distress. In this case, rather than confronting the objectifying remarks head-on, the girls who were perplexed by Rehan's objectification ultimately turned their wrath on him. As he was easy to identify, he became the target of their annoyance and they began to bully him.

Social media's anonymity can make it easy for people to lash out impulsively. The fast pace of online interactions and the text format can also make it difficult to fully understand the emotions of others and the intention behind their posts. This lack of context can lead to misunderstandings, fueling misplaced aggression. The consequences can be significant.

Sometimes, the real source of our anger is someone we feel afraid to confront, like a boss or parent. Taking it out on someone else who seems "safer" is a release for this pent-up emotion without risking negative consequences.

When we're overwhelmed by anger, we can lash out at the nearest target instead of pinpointing the exact cause. Occasionally, misdirecting our anger is an unconscious way of protecting ourselves. By directing the anger elsewhere, we avoid having to deal with the real motivation for our distress. It is important to recognise that displaced aggression often stems from unresolved emotional issues. Learning healthy ways to manage these emotions can help us avoid taking out our anger on the wrong person.

When someone is angry and acting inappropriately, resisting them may not have the best outcome. It may only fuel their rage and frustration, making the problem worse. But we can try to create a more positive and welcoming social media environment by understanding when our anger is misplaced and taking more care when interacting online.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: What’s next for Christopher Nolan?

After taking home Oscars for Best Director and Best Picture, the future looks as bright as ever for the renowned filmmaker

Only a handful of directors ever reach the status of household names, but Christopher Nolan is definitely one of them. With only a dozen movies to his name, he has carved out an unforgettable mark on the cinema world.

While Nolan is popularly known for his mind-bending narratives and distaste for CGI, his work explores deeper topics of human morality, the nature of time, and the construction of personal activity. His movies are not only blockbusters, they also leave you something to think about. After the cult hit Memento, the superhero crime epic of the Dark Knight trilogy, and the twisty Inception, Nolan swept this year’s Oscars with the biopic Oppenheimer.

With every entry in his filmography, the uproar grows louder. The impressive leads to one inevitable question from his fans – what’s next for Christopher Nolan?

Nolan is notoriously secretive about his upcoming projects. This secrecy only fans the flames of those excited about a glimpse of the next big thing. After all, what other modern director has been able to deliver theatrical experiences unlike any before amid such increasing pressure and sky-high expectations?

So, what could his next project be?

A quirk of his filmography is that he often follows an adapted story with an original one. But, this time, rumours say that he might opt for another adaptation or, possibly, a remake.

One project that might grab his attention is a reimagining of The Prisoner. Originally airing in 1967, the British TV show follows a secret agent spirited away to a strange village when he tenders his resignation. Though the place seems perfect from the outside, its reality is quite different. Without giving too much away, the Patrick McGoohan vehicle is full of mystery, plot twists, and a quirky style that has made it an enduring cult classic and may be right up Nolan’s alley.

There is, of course, another British spy franchise that could use the Nolan touch. As fans of the director may know from his interviews, Nolan loves James Bond. With Daniel Craig set to depart after a decade and a half in the role, speculation is heating up about the future of the beloved series. Rumours are swirling about a meeting between series producer Barbara Broccoli and the eminent director. It would be a massive shot in the arm for the franchise to have its next entry helmed by such an accomplished filmmaker. Nolan, for his part, has continued to deny the gossip.

But, of course, it’s impossible to say for sure. Nolan’s infamous caginess will likely mean that he will deny whatever speculation drums up. The only sure way to get an answer is to wait. The filmmaker has consistently maintained a gap of about three years between his movies. So, until 2027, we’ll have to re-watch his older films to build up the hype.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Things I miss about Ramadan

Have we stopped valuing the small things that meant so much to us when we were young, or is it just the curse of growing up?

There are lots of things I miss about the Ramadans of my childhood:

Going to bed early so I could have Sehri with my family, only to oversleep and substitute breakfast for my last meal instead (This never stopped me from going about telling everyone ‘I am fasting’ with a bright smile)

The half-day fasts I devised from morning Sehri to noon to feel like I was doing my part

Seeing my family pray and immediately taking out a prayer mat, copying their movements, and mumbling along in the hope I was able to follow what my elders were saying in their prayers

Accidentally drinking water, then checking left and right before trying to convince myself, “If no one saw it, then it never happened”

Actually waking up for Sehri on time and staying up after Fajr prayers to see the beautiful sunrise and bask in its golden glow before returning to bed

School being closed for nearly an entire month

The feast the women of the family would spend the entire day making

Sitting patiently at the table and waiting for the Magrib Azaan. Then, praying together with my family for a few minutes before we broke our fast

Accompanying my Ammu or Khala to the door to hand out food to the street kids after breaking our fast. My family would always have some food ready for them

Bragging to friends, classmates and peers about how many days I had fasted

Planning to buy the perfect dress for Eid

Patiently waiting for Eid Day with an eye on the salami I would receive from my elders

Pre-planning all the things I would buy with my Eid salami

Waking up before everyone else on Eid Day, taking a shower, getting dressed up, and going to a nearby friend’s house

Losing track of the time during Eid celebrations and falling asleep with a smile

Now, I look back on those days and feel nostalgic.

It seems like, as time goes on and we grow up, we start feeling less and less excited about the little things that bring joy to our daily lives. Over the years, I’ve lost many of the things that brightened up the days of Ramadan.

What holds us back? Is it the current state of the world? The sorrow of not being able to help those who are suffering?

Are we too drained of emotional energy by the constant reminders that the world is not a happy place?

Looking back at my childhood I think of golden times when I was more present instead of being glued to my phone all the time. When I took an active part in the daily things that make Ramadan a month to remember.

For the sake of those lovely days, I’ve come up with a small plan this year. To be more present and engaged in all the little things I can do with my family – helping to prepare Iftar, setting out plates, going to neighbours’ homes to share Iftar.

Maybe those golden days aren’t gone just yet. Perhaps all I need to do is put in the effort to make this Ramadan as joyous and memorable as those of the past.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



An emerging artist pays tribute to a major influence on her work



Title: Sparks between Gosling, Blunt ignite interest in ‘The Fall Guy’

The sizzling chemistry between the two leads at the Oscars seems to carry over to the upcoming action comedy

‘Barbenheimer’ was the biggest thing in movies last year. The unexpected double bill dominated the imagination of fans worldwide, propelling both films to massive box office success, even at the Oscars. And it was at the Oscars that a couple of stars from each film took to the stage.

Emily Blunt and Ryan Gosling are familiar faces to fans of Hollywood movies, but I had never seen them together before. Their easy, playful banter was magnetic and immediately ignited my curiosity about whether it would translate to on-screen chemistry in their upcoming collaboration The Fall Guy.

Inspired by the 1980s TV series of the same name, the movie tells the story of Colt Seavers (Ryan Gosling), a struggling stuntman past his prime who gets a shot to work on the latest blockbuster featuring action star Tom Ryder (Aaron Taylor-Johnson). To his surprise, the film’s director is his ex-girlfriend Jody Moreno (Emily Blunt). To make things worse, Tom suddenly vanishes under mysterious circumstances. Colt, driven by honour and lingering affection, embarks on a mission to find Tom and salvage Jody’s film.

But, what begins as a man-hunt soon turns into a deadly game of cat and mouse as long-buried secrets surface and plunge characters into deadly peril.

The trailer shows Gosling in top form, melding his action chops from Drive and The Grey Man with the comedic touches from Barbie and The Nice Guys. His connection with Blunt is clear even among the quick snippets and snappy edits. The frisson between the two is undeniable.

The project is in the sturdy hands of director David Leitch, whose filmography includes John Wick, Deadpool 2, and Nobody.

The Fall Guy promises an action-packed ride full of thrills, witty banter, and sizzling chemistry. The two trailers have already racked up millions of views and for good reason. I’m eagerly anticipating the film’s blend of sharp action with humour and relatable characters.

The Fall Guy premiers on May 3 and I, for one, will be early in line for a ticket.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Throwback Thursday: The warm comfort of 'Full House'

The classic sitcom harkens back to a golden age of loving family dynamics and valuable life lessons

A lot of us look back on a golden age in our lives. For many of us, it was our childhoods. That era when everything was warm and comfortable, but still exciting. And few shows capture those feelings with the depth and specificity of Full House.

The American sitcom started in 1987 – before I was even born - became a huge hit, and ran for eight seasons until 1995. Premiering in the heyday of the three-camera sitcom, Full House stood out because of its unusual family dynamics.

The show starts with widower Danny (Bob Saget) asking his brother-in-law Jesse (John Stamos) and best friend Joey (Dave Coulier) to help raise his three girls – the practical DJ (Candace Cameron Bure), the sarcastic Stephanie (Jodie Sweetin), and the precocious Michelle (played jointly by Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen).

The unconventional nature of the main cast’s relationships is what makes the show as the audience follows three flawed kind-hearted men as they take on the task of raising three wonderful, but very different children.

Men rarely take on the job of raising children in our society. But Full House offers a gender role reversal, making all of the parental figures male in a direct challenge to social norms and traditions. But that doesn’t mean the kids suffer from a lack of feminine influence in their lives.

Each of the adults finds ways to connect with and balance their masculine and feminine energies to ensure that the kids grow up in an environment that provides them with the necessary nourishment and love.

Danny is a great father, playing the role of the responsible one. His position as the breadwinner burdens him with additional obligations, but he learns to balance his work responsibilities with the time he needs to devote to his daughters. He’s the grown up of the show – making the decisions necessary to ensure a good future for his kids.

Joey, his best friend, is the show’s goofball. He works as a stand-up comedian, often imitating a slew of cartoon characters. Though he’s often the silliest character, his indirect approach can cut to the heart of the matter. Through his antics, he can tackle heavy topics without making things dark and ends up sneaking in words of wisdom under the guise of humour.

But the scene stealer of the show is Uncle Jesse - the instant heartthrob with his Elvis aesthetic and intense charisma. And he’s also the character who grows and changes the most throughout the show. He starts off as something of an irresponsible layabout who’s too focused on his hair and dreams of rock stardom to really grow up. But, as he takes care of his nieces and becomes closer with them, he comes to see things – and himself – in a new light.

Watching these men develop more as people alongside the children they raise is like free therapy. You’ll laugh, you’ll cry, and maybe even pick up some valuable lessons along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Melodies of grief: What I learnt about myself by playing the kalimba

As I learned to play the African musical instrument, emotions I had long hidden away floated to the surface

I’ve always been a quiet person. I never had the easiest time with words or people. The skies were the only ones who knew my stories.

I often thought that those who could express themselves without words were lucky.

I longed to be able to do that. To find an instrument that could convey my feelings. Something that could carry a melody, but was easy to hide. I wanted a way to enjoy playing music without bothering other people.

That’s when I first learned about the kalimba.

The kalimba is a modern interpretation of an African instrument, traditional to the Shona people of Zimbabwe. It consists of a wooden board attached to staggered metal tines. You hold it in your hands and pluck at the prongs with your fingers and thumbs.

I thought it was perfect for me – small, unassuming, with a soft, pleasant sound.

What I didn’t expect was my emotional reaction to playing it.

The first song I learned was the American country standard ‘You Are My Sunshine’. My friends and I thought it was a pretty, if simple, song.

But, when I got to the part where the singer says, “I dreamed I held you in my arms, but when I woke, dear, I was mistaken,” I felt tears welling up.

In that instant, I was thinking of Mickey.

Mickey was my pet. He died when he was only four months old. I still craved the touch of his little paws. Playing the song stirred my memories of holding him.

Since his death, I had locked that sadness away, never confronting it. But, as I plucked at my kalimba, it bubbled up inside me, demanding to be acknowledged.

For the first time, instead of turning away, I confronted it. And the outcome of that confrontation was the music. It felt cathartic.

I then turned to other songs that had resonated with me, like ‘Runaway’ and ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’. Through the kalimba I explored the emotional complexity of lines like, "And I was running far away; would I run off the world someday?" and "Mama, I don't want to die; I sometimes wish I'd never been born at all."

As the instrument resonated in my hand, I looked into the depths of my grief. I saw the pain that had lingered through a thousand tiny cuts and deep, wounding gashes. Places that scar tissue had covered, but not healed. I felt the demands they had made on me through the years and acknowledged that hurt.

The music of the kalimba comforted me, but it also pushed me to grow and become stronger.

Recently, I played the song ‘500 Miles’. One line stuck with me - "Lord, I can't go back home this way." At that moment I realised that this was only the start of the journey. There were more emotions to uncover and truths to find.

Through the simple act of playing the kalimba, I’ve discovered the truth of the old idea that music can illuminate the darkest corners of our souls.

Now, alongside the skies, the kalimba has started to hear all my stories. But they are still a bit different. The skies know all the questions I have asked them throughout my life. The kalimba has started unpacking the answers.

Sometimes, though, it can be overwhelming. Sometimes my exploration hits a spot that is too sharp and raw. The last song I tried to play was ‘Time in a Bottle’. It completely eluded me. Sometimes I don’t even want to look at the kalimba.

There is still a long way to go on my emotional journey. For now, I’m taking a rest stop. But, when I’m ready, I know the kalimba will be there to guide me along the way.

This article is part of Stripe, bdnews24.com's special publication focusing on culture and society from a youth perspective.



Title: Biden's daunting exit list: Gaza ceasefire, Ukraine aid, US Steel

He may pursue a limited security pact with Saudi Arabia, strengthening both against Iran

US President Joe Biden delivers remarks during the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington, DC, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz/File Photo

With a month left in the White House, US President Joe Biden has a long list of foreign and domestic policy actions he hopes to get done before president-elect Donald Trump assumes office, where the Republican is expected to try to reverse much of Biden's record.

Atop Biden's list are final, hurried pushes to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of American hostages abroad, distribute more aid to Ukraine, issue more pardons to non-violent criminals, forgive more student debt, release more funding for semiconductor chip production, and potentially block the sale of US Steel, according to White House aides and an internal memo seen by Reuters.

The list reflects how drawn-out and bloody wars in Europe and the Middle East on Biden's watch hijacked his legacy overseas, where he promised to restore and strengthen American leadership. Simultaneously, Democrats' election failures have shaken his legacy at home.

Biden, 82, promised to remake the US economy as president and clocked significant legislative wins in the first half of his four-year term, including the bipartisan infrastructure and inflation reduction bills.

But major lawmaking essentially ground to a halt after Republicans won the House in the 2022 midterm elections. Some Democrats blame Biden's refusal to step aside as candidate for their colossal defeats this November, most notably Vice President Kamala Harris' loss to Trump in every battleground state.

Securing a ceasefire deal in the war between Israel and Hamas that Palestinian authorities say has killed over 45,000 in Gaza, and bolstering Ukraine's defence in its nearly 3-year war with Russia are top priorities, White House officials say.

"This is not an uncommon thing for presidents at the end of their term or in the transition period if there are unresolved conflicts," said US presidential historian and Vanderbilt University professor Thomas Alan Schwartz.

A ceasefire deal in the 14-month war in Gaza could happen in the coming days, with the administration making a forceful diplomatic push this week. Similar hopeful discussions have flopped in the past, but the scope of this agreement is narrower.

Biden is also rushing weapons to Ukraine for fear that Trump, who often boasts of his close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, may be less likely to aid Ukraine's war effort.

He may also seek to close a stripped-down security pact with Saudi Arabia, which could strengthen both countries against Iran. The oil-rich Middle East power rejected Biden's condition of normalising relations with Israel and consequently abandoned talks of a binding mutual defence treaty with the US.

HOME FRONT

Biden's final domestic policy sprint will include distributing the remaining funds he secured through his landmark investment legislation, including high-speed internet funding to states, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters. In January, he is expected to announce a $2,000 prescription drug cost cap for Medicare recipients, and he will work with Congress to get federal judges confirmed until the last minute, the memo said.

The stage is all but set for Biden to block the sale of US Steel to an overseas buyer as soon as next week, something he has promised to do for nearly a year as he touts his mission to keep and expand manufacturing on US soil.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which reviews deals for national security risks, has a Dec 23 deadline to approve the deal, extend the review, or recommend Biden scuttle it.

On this issue, Biden and Trump agree: Trump said earlier this month that he would block the deal.

Other priorities involve policies or programmes that Trump is likely to oppose, including efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change.

The Treasury Department is expected as soon as today to issue its highly contested final guidance for the Inflation Reduction Act's tax credit for hydrogen projects, and Biden officials are conferring with EU peers on locking in methane emissions before Trump takes office.

The Commerce Department is rapidly awarding its remaining funds to boost US semiconductor chip manufacturing, which were allocated by Biden's CHIPS and Science Act. Trump has criticised the programme's price tag, casting its future in doubt.



Title: Sweden ends funding for UN Palestinian aid agency UNRWA

It plans to increase Gaza aid to 800 million crowns next year

A Palestinian carries an aid box distributed by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Deir Al-Balah, central Gaza Strip, Nov 4, 2024. REUTERS/Ramadan Abed/File Photo

Sweden will no longer fund the UN refugee agency for Palestinians (UNRWA) and will instead provide increased overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza via other channels, the Nordic country said on Friday.

Israel, which says it will ban UNRWA operations in the country from late January, accuses the agency of being involved in the Oct 7, 2023, Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the 14-month-old war in Gaza.

Sweden's decision was in response to the Israeli ban, as it will make channelling aid via the agency more difficult, the country's aid minister, Benjamin Dousa, said.

"Large parts of UNRWA's operations in Gaza are either going to be severely weakened or completely impossible," Dousa told Reuters. "For the government, the most important thing is that support gets through."

Dousa said Sweden "in no way" supported Israel's law and had repeatedly expressed its criticism. "Israel must do much more to ensure humanitarian access to Gaza," he said.

The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA's operations in the West Bank and Gaza but it will have a severe impact on UNRWA's ability to work. Top UN officials describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza's aid response.

Sweden plans to lift its overall humanitarian aid to Gaza next year to 800 million Swedish crowns ($72.44 million) from 451 million spent this year, the foreign ministry said.

Aid will flow via several organisations including the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN Populations Fund (UNFPA) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the ministry added.

The Palestinian embassy in Stockholm said in a statement: "We reject the idea of finding alternatives to UNRWA, which has a special mandate to provide services to Palestinian refugees." The refugee population relies on UNRWA healthcare, education, emergency relief and humanitarian assistance, it said.

The UN General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month, demanding Israel respect the agency's mandate and "enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction".

UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X: "Defunding UNRWA now will undermine decades of Sweden’s investment in human development including by denying access to education for hundreds of thousands of girls and boys across the region."

Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Sharren Haskel thanked Dousa for a meeting they had this week and for Sweden's decision to drop its support for UNRWA.

"There are worthy and viable alternatives for humanitarian aid, and I appreciate the willingness to listen and adopt a different approach," she said.

The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved in the Oct 7, 2023 Hamas attack and had been fired. A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job.



Title: Israel's Netanyahu eyes Iran after triumphs over Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria

As Iran weakens, Israel rises as the dominant regional power

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks at a ceremony for military combat officers at an army base near Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, Oct 31, 2024. REUTERS/Amir Cohen/File Photo

2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his country's arch foe Iran.

The veteran Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals: tightening his military control over Gaza, thwarting Iran's nuclear ambitions and capitalising on the dismantling of Tehran's allies -- Palestinian Hamas, Lebanon's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

Assad's collapse, the elimination of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu.

Without Syria, the alliances Tehran has nurtured for decades have unravelled. As Iran's influence weakens, Israel is emerging as the dominant power in the region.

Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran's nuclear ambitions and missile programme, applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel.

Iran, Middle East observers say, faces a stark choice: Either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations.

"Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack, particularly against its nuclear programme," said Joost R. Hiltermann, Middle East and North Africa Program Director of the International Crisis Group. "I wouldn't be surprised if Israel did it, but that doesn't get rid of Iran."

"If they (Iranians) do not back down, Trump and Netanyahu might strike, as nothing now prevents them," said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib, referring to President-elect Donald Trump. Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership, having demonstrated pragmatism in the past, may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation.

Trump, who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear goals, is likely to step up sanctions on Iran's oil industry, despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy.

DEFINING LEGACY

Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza, Netanyahu's long-running corruption trial, which resumed in December, will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy. For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza war in 2023, Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis.

With 2024 coming to an end, the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old Gaza war and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave, according to sources close to the negotiations.

But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority (PA), which Netanyahu rejects. Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over.

"Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising. Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza," Khatib told Reuters.

For Netanyahu, such a result would mark a strategic victory, consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision: Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel's long-term control over Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state.

The Gaza war erupted when Hamas militants stormed into Israel on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people, health authorities there say, displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins.

While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities, it would not address the deeper, decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Arab and Western officials say.

On the ground, prospects for a Palestinian state, an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu's government, have become increasingly unattainable, with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views.

A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic "No Future in Palestine" - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians.

Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict, "any resolution would be on Israel’s terms," said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group.

"It's over when it comes to a Palestinian state, but the Palestinians are still there," he said.

In Trump's previous term, Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins, including the “Deal of the Century,” a US-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The plan, if implemented, marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations.

It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank, including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley. It would also recognise Jerusalem as the "undivided capital of Israel" - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital, a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions.

SYRIA AT CRITICAL CROSSROADS

Across the border from Israel, Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) rebel forces, led by Ahmad al-Sharaa, better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani.

Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria, where the military and police force have collapsed. HTS has to rebuild from scratch, securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from jihadists, remnants of the Assad regime, and other adversaries.

The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS, once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy, reverts to a rigid Islamist ideology.

The group’s ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria, home to diverse communities of Sunnis, Shi'ites, Alawites, Kurds, Druze and Christians.

"If they succeed in that (Syrian nationalism) there's hope for Syria, but if they revert to their comfort zone of quite strongly ideologically-tainted Islamism, then it's going to be divisive in Syria," said Hiltermann.

"You could have chaos and a weak Syria for a long time, just like we saw in Libya and Iraq."



Title: Elon Musk gives nod to German far-right party as election looms

He backs multiple anti-immigration parties in Europe

Tesla CEO and X owner Elon Musk listens as US President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with House Republicans at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Washington, DC, US on Nov 13, 2024. ALLISON ROBBERT/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo

US billionaire Elon Musk, set to join President-elect Donald Trump's administration as an outside adviser, waded into Germany's election campaign on Friday, calling the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) the country's saviour.

The AfD is running second in opinion polls and might be able to thwart either a centre-right or centre-left majority, but Germany's mainstream, more centrist parties have vowed to shun support from the AfD at national level.

Europe's leading power is expected to vote on Feb 23 after a centre-left coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz collapsed.

"Only the AfD can save Germany," Musk wrote in a post on his social media platform, X.

Musk, the world's richest person, has already expressed support for other anti-immigration parties across Europe.

The German government said it had taken note of Musk's post but declined to give any further comment at its regular press conference.

Musk reposted a message by German right-wing influencer Naomi Seibt that criticised Friedrich Merz, chancellor candidate for the conservatives, who are comfortably ahead in surveys.

Matthias Miersch, secretary-general of Scholz's Social Democrats, told the media outlet t-online that Germany did not need foreign influences or "Trumpism", adding: "Stay out, Elon."

Musk had already voiced support for the AfD last year, when he attacked the German government's handling of illegal migration.

Last month, Musk called for the sacking of Italian judges who had questioned the legality of government measures to prevent irregular immigration.

And this week Nigel Farage, leader of Britain's right-wing Reform UK party and friend of Trump, posted a photo of himself and Reform's treasurer meeting Musk at Trump's Florida residence, and said he was in talks with Musk about financial support.



Title: Top US officials in Damascus to meet new Syrian rulers, State Department says

The delegation also seeks information on a US journalist, missing since 2012

Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani speaks to a crowd at Ummayad Mosque in Damascus, after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad, Syria Dec 8, 2024. REUTERS/Mahmoud Hassano//File Photo

Top US diplomats were expected to hold Washington's first in-person official meetings with Syria's new de facto rulers led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Damascus on Friday, hoping to gauge what plans the former al Qaeda affiliate has for the country.

The United States, other Western powers and many Syrians were glad to see militias led by HTS topple President Bashar al-Assad, but it is not clear whether the group will impose strict Islamic rule or show flexibility and move towards democracy.

The US officials from the Biden administration will discuss with HTS representatives a set of principles such as inclusivity and respect for the rights of minorities that Washington wants included in Syria's political transition, a State Department spokesperson said.

The State Department's top Middle East diplomat Barbara Leaf, Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and Senior Advisor Daniel Rubinstein, who is tasked with leading the Department's Syria engagement, are the first US diplomats to travel to Damascus since Assad's rule collapsed.

Western governments are gradually opening channels to HTS and its leader Ahmed al-Sharaa, a former commander of an al Qaeda franchise in Syria, and starting to debate whether to remove the group's terrorist designation. The US delegation's trip follows contacts with France and Britain in recent days.

The delegation will also seek information about US journalist Austin Tice, who was taken captive during a reporting trip to Syria in August 2012, and other American citizens who went missing under Assad.

"They will be engaging directly with the Syrian people, including members of civil society, activists, members of different communities, and other Syrian voices about their vision for the future of their country and how the United States can help support them," the State Department spokesperson said.

"They also plan to meet with representatives of HTS to discuss transition principles endorsed by the United States and regional partners in Aqaba, Jordan."

The US cut diplomatic ties with Syria and shut its embassy in the capital Damascus in 2012.

SYRIANS GATHER

Several hundred Syrians gathered in Damascus' central Ummayad Square on Thursday to call for a democratic, secular state that ensures equal rights for women. It was the first such demonstration since Assad's ouster.

There is widespread apprehension among Syrians that the new administration will gravitate towards hardline religious rule, marginalising minority communities and excluding women from public life.

Obaida Arnout, a spokesperson for the Syrian transitional government, said this week that women's "biological and physiological nature" rendered them unfit for certain governmental jobs.

The UN human rights office will send a small team of human rights officers to Syria next week for the first time in years following the overthrow of Assad, UN spokesperson Thameen Al-Kheetan told a press briefing in Geneva.

As part of the takeover, rebels have flung open prisons and government offices, raising fresh hopes for accountability for crimes committed during Syria's civil war.

Syrian rebels seized control of Damascus on Dec 8, forcing Assad to flee after more than 13 years of civil war and ending his family's decades-long rule.

The rebel sweep ended a war that killed hundreds of thousands, caused one of the biggest refugee crises of modern times and left cities bombed to rubble, countryside depopulated and the economy hollowed out by global sanctions.

The lightning offensive raised questions over whether the rebels will be able to ensure an orderly transition.

Forces under the command of al-Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - replaced the Assad family rule with a three-month caretaker government that had been ruling a rebel enclave in Syria's northwestern province of Idlib.

Washington designated al-Sharaa a terrorist in 2013, saying al Qaeda in Iraq had tasked him with overthrowing Assad's rule and establishing Islamic sharia law in Syria. It said the Nusra Front, the predecessor of HTS, carried out suicide attacks that killed civilians and espoused a violent sectarian vision.

Golani said the terrorist designation was unfair and that he opposed the killing of innocent people.

Washington remains concerned that ISIS could seize the moment to resurrect and also wants to avoid any clashes in the country's northeast between Turkey-backed rebel factions and US-allied Kurdish militia.



Title: Georgia to award medals to officials sanctioned by West for protest crackdown

11 officials are set to receive one of Georgia's highest civilian medals

Georgia's Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze leaves after a briefing amid the political crisis, triggered by the government's decision to suspend talks on joining the European Union, in Tbilisi, Georgia Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Irakli Gedenidze

Five Georgian interior ministry officials who were sanctioned by the West for their role in a violent crackdown on pro-EU protesters will be presented with one of the country's highest honours, Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze said on Friday.

Georgians have been protesting daily for three weeks since the government announced it was halting talks on joining the European Union - a longstanding and widely popular national goal - until 2028.

The officials to be decorated include Interior Minister Vakhtang Gomelauri and heads of the ministry's Special Tasks Department, which is accused of orchestrating beatings of opposition politicians and journalists, who were sanctioned by the US and UK on Thursday.

Gomelauri, a former bodyguard to Bidzina Ivanishvili, a billionaire ex-prime minister widely seen as Georgia's paramount leader, was also promoted on Friday to deputy prime minister.

Police have used water cannon and tear gas against the crowds. Georgia's government has accused the demonstrators of trying to stage a revolution and says more than 150 police officers have been injured in clashes with protesters who have thrown fireworks at them.

Georgia had been seen as among the most democratic and pro-Western of the Soviet Union's successor states, but critics accuse it of moving in an increasingly authoritarian and pro-Russian direction in the past several years.

Kobakhidze told reporters the government would compensate any officials who suffered financial losses as a result of the "unjust decision" to impose Western sanctions.

He said the officials were being rewarded for "the honourable actions carried out by the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs." A total of 11 senior officials would be nominated for the Order of Honour, one of Georgia's highest civilian medals.



