Category: https://bdnews24.com/lifestyle

Title: Ivory Coast's economic hub Abidjan turns into vibrant graffiti gallery

Passers-by praise artists’ efforts to revamp the urban centre

Street artists who came to participate in the first edition of Graff Ivoire, paint a mural on the facade of the Pullman hotel, in Abidjan, Ivory Coast Nov 17, 2024. REUTERS/Luc Gnago

Splashes of vibrant colours are reviving the urban canvas of Abidjan's Plateau district, the economic heart of the Ivory Coast.

Ivorians have previously viewed graffiti with disdain and graffiti artists were liable for prosecution. But that view is changing, and graffiti murals are increasingly common on city walls as the artform has gained acceptance.

Towering murals and intricate graffiti pieces now adorn the exteriors of international hotels and major thoroughfares.

The inaugural "Ivory Graff Graffiti Festival" attracted around 40 national and international artists who spent two weeks in November converting bland walls into 300-meter-long works of art.

Benjamin Le Lieve, president of festival organiser Graff Ivoire, said he was proud to have launched a new initiative.

Passers-by admired the artists at work and expressed approval for their efforts to revamp the urban centre.

"It brings a change to the city of Abidjan," said Michael Bende, an Ivorian citizen.

South African artist Dbongz Mahlathi said: "The graffiti I've created isn't for me ... it's for the people who will see it every day."



Title: Kite-making picks up in India's Gujarat as harvest festival nears

Gujarat's kite industry employs 130,000, despite a brief flying season

Kite enthusiasts fly kites during the eight-day-long International Kite Festival in Ahmedabad, India, Jan 7, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

Huddled over piles of colourful paper, Mohammad Yunus is one among thousands of workers in India's western state of Gujarat who make kites by hand that are used during a major harvest festival.

People in Gujarat celebrate Uttarayan, a Hindu festival in mid-January that celebrates the end of winter by flying kites held by glass-coated or plastic strings.

"The kite may seem like a small item but it takes a long time to make it. Many people are involved in it and their livelihoods depend on it," Yunus, a Muslim who comes to Gujarat from neighbouring Rajasthan state to make kites during the peak season, told Reuters.

More than 130,000 people are involved in kite-making throughout Gujarat, according to government estimates, many of whom work from homes to make kites that cost as little as five rupees (6 US cents).

At the start of the two-day festival, people rent roofs and terraces from those who have access to them, and gather there to fly colourful kites that criss-cross each other in the sky.

Gujarat is a hub of the kite industry in the country, boasting a market worth 6.50 billion Indian rupees ($76.58 million), and the state accounts for about 65% of the total number of kites made in India.

While the kite flying season in the state is limited to almost just 2 or 3 days in January, the industry runs year-round providing employment to about 130,000 people in the state, according to government figures.

But these paper birds are also harmful and can be fatal, especially kites that have plastic strings, which can cause serious cuts to birds in the sky, killing and injuring thousands of them during the festival.

At least 18 people died from kite related injures across Gujarat during this year's Uttarayan festival, including being cut by a string and getting electrocuted while trying to extricate a kite from an electric pole, local media reported.



Title: Shanghai bear cub Junjun becomes breakout star

Born at the zoo as the first offspring of his parents, Junjun was hand-reared by keepers who supply his toys and favourite foods of beef and apples with honey

A 11-month-old bear cub, Junjun, looks on in his enclosure at Shanghai Zoo, in Shanghai, China Dec 12, 2024. REUTERS/Casey Hall

Adoring crowds are flocking to a zoo in Shanghai to watch Junjun, a bear cub just 11 months old, as he frolics in his enclosure playing with toys, such as a favourite tyre, or splashing in a water trough.

Standing 1 m (3.3 ft) tall and weighing more than 35 kg (77 lbs), the brown bear's every move captivates fans, who exclaim at his resemblance to a playful puppy and admire his fluffy fur coat.

Even on a cold weekday in December, when the zoo in China's commercial hub is mostly deserted, a crowd gathers at the outdoor enclosure where Junjun encounters his doting public every two days.

"His little movements are really funny. Very cute, so cute that it can't be cuter," said one visitor, surnamed Lin.

Born at the zoo as the first offspring of his parents, Junjun was hand-reared by keepers who supply his toys and favourite foods of beef and apples with honey.

Junjun's fame has spread on social media, with videos and pictures online commenting on his resemblance to Duffy, a teddy bear and popular Disney character.

"Everyone likes such a lively and active bear cub," said his keeper, Yang Junjie. "He can play in the exhibition area all day long, attracting everyone's attention."

Junjun has always been playful, said Yang, who added he was initially taken aback by the streams of visitors as he did not realise his charge had become an online celebrity.

The bear's favourite game is racing with his keepers, first chasing them, then being chased by them but stopping to let them catch up.



Title: In Rio de Janeiro competition, barbers battle for best haircut

Over more than a decade since it started, the competition has cemented itself as a tradition in Rio's suburbs

A boy shows his bleached hair during a barbers' battle contest for best haircut in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil December 15, 2024. REUTERS/Aline Massuca

Over the sound of Brazilian music and under the scorching Rio de Janeiro heat, around 90 barbers battled on Sunday to decide who would be the best in a yearly competition that boosts the careers of winners and garners international attention.

Gathered in a park in Rio's Madureira neighbourhood, barbers made the heads of volunteers their canvas, colouring and buzzing hair to create styles that showcase abstract or detailed designs.

"Ten years ago, barbers were a thing from my grandfather's time, no one believed in the profession," said Erica Nunes, the event's creator. "The battle of the barbers arose to value this profession."

Over more than a decade since it started, the competition has cemented itself as a tradition in Rio's suburbs, attracting barbers from across Brazil and even from neighboring countries.

"We are very well prepared and eager," said Allan Gonzales, a Bolivian barber.

From inside an MMA-like ring, barbers compete to win in four different categories, with their work evaluated by a panel of judges. Marcelo Anderson, known as Magnific, won in the drawing category - he used his clippers to create the portraits of two men on the side of the young client's head.

This was his fourth win since he started competing over a decade ago, and each time he sees a boost on his clientele after it, he told Reuters.

"It brings more visibility, a lot of fans. They start following me on social media and I gain more clients."



Title: Stand aside Harry Potter, blazing brooms light up Spanish festival

The fiery festival takes place on the eve of the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception

People carry brooms on fire during the "Los Escobazos" festival in Jarandilla de la Vera, Caceres, Spain, Dec 7, 2024. REUTERS/Ana Beltran

Processions of people wielding flaming brooms may sound like something out of magic tales, but those used to light up a Spanish town every year are the real thing - and there is no witchcraft involved, just fun.

Every year on Dec 7, the inhabitants of Jarandilla de la Vera, a town in western Spain about 200 km (124 miles) west of Madrid, set bundles of twigs on fire and playfully hit each other on the legs in a festival known as Los Escobazos (the broom strikes).

"This celebration represents the best (feeling) for us. All the sadness you had in your body and didn't know how to get rid of, you leave it here with the fire," local resident Vicente Berrocosa told Reuters on Saturday.

The fiery festival is celebrated on the eve of the Catholic feast known as the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception. It is believed to have originated with shepherds coming from the hills using blazing brooms to light their way.

"We play with fire as if we were playing with water. For us, fire is a symbol of purity. Nothing happens, we hit each other and we don't get hurt, we don't get burned. It's wonderful!" said another resident, Jesus Ferino.



Title: New York museum unveils 'Apex' - an almost complete Stegosaurus

The fossil, found in Colorado, has recently sold for $44.6 million at an auction

A Stegosaurus fossil nicknamed Apex is unveiled to the media at the American Museum of Natural History, in New York City, US, Dec 5, 2024. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

The American Museum of Natural History revealed the identity of its latest resident on Thursday - "Apex," one of the most complete specimens ever discovered of the plant-eating dinosaur Stegosaurus, known for the upright plates on its back and a spiky tail.

To excited gasps from an audience of school children, the museum pulled back a beige curtain to reveal the 11-foot (3.4-metre) tall, 20-foot (6-metre) long skeleton of the Jurassic Period dinosaur.

"People are really excited about this fossil because Stegosaurus is an iconic dinosaur," said the museum's dinosaur curator Roger Benson.

Stegosaurus walked on four legs and lived in North America around 150 million years ago during the Jurassic Period. Its fossils were first discovered in the 1870s.

"Although it was a herbivore, Stegosaurus wasn't like a cow or a sheep," Benson said. "It's a herbivore that could look after itself. It has these wicked spikes on its tail. It has plates along its back."

Those would have been useful as protection against meat-eating dinosaurs like Allosaurus.

This Stegosaurus fossil was found in Colorado and fetched a record $44.6 million at a Sotheby's auction in July. The buyer has loaned it to the New York museum, one of the leading natural history museums in the United States.

"Everyone has their own favourite dinosaur, but Stegosaurus is up there in the top five. So it's hard not to get excited about a really complete, large individual of this animal," Benson said.



Title: Japan's centuries-old sake tradition recognised on UNESCO cultural heritage list

Producers hope this will boost global interest in the traditional rice wine that dates back centuries

Japan's Ambassador to UNESCO Takehiro Kano addresses the audience at the 19th World Cultural Heritage Conference, as Japan's Sake was added to UNESCO'S Intangible Cultural Heritage list, in Asuncion, Paraguay Dec 4, 2024. REUTERS

UNESCO recognized Japan's ancient process of sake brewing as an "intangible cultural heritage" on Wednesday, which producers hope will boost global interest in the traditional rice wine that dates back centuries but has waned in popularity at home.

Naturally, Japanese representatives at a UNESCO meeting in Paraguay marked the occasion by sampling some sake.

The beverage is made over several weeks by fermenting a mixture of rice, water, yeast and a colorful mold known as koji, in a process more akin to making beer than wine. The end results can be served hot, cold or at room temperature.

While sake plays a significant role in Japanese society and tradition, often served during ceremonies and special meals, demand has ebbed for the drink domestically even as international demand grows.

Sake producers hope UNESCO's recognition accelerates their exports and reinvigorates enthusiasm for the beverage at home.

"We are very happy," said Japan's permanent representative to UNESCO, Takehiro Kano.

"Being recognized internationally by this mechanism will renew the interest of Japanese people in this area, and that could lead to more momentum for transmitting these skills and know-how to the next generation."

UNESCO, the United Nations' education, scientific and cultural agency, admits practices, pieces of art or skills to its intangible cultural heritage list to foster their preservation for future generations.

UNESCO delegates also approved Asturian cider culture in Spain and the making of giant barrels in Guatemala, among other items and practices admitted to the list on Wednesday.



Title: Bronze statues, coins and ancient eggs found in Tuscan thermal baths

Archaeologists have been digging in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop town about 160 km north of Rome

The so-called bull statuette is displayed after it was discovered and pulled out from the muddy ruins of an ancient spa in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop village in southern Tuscany still home to popular thermal baths, in Grosseto, Italy, Sept 25, 2024. Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism/Handout via REUTERS

Ancient statues, coins, jewels and still-intact eggs from Roman and Etruscan times have been recovered from thermal baths in southern Tuscany, Italy's culture ministry said on Tuesday, presenting the latest discoveries at the site.

Archaeologists have been digging in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop town about 160 km (100 miles) north of Rome since 2019, and announced other remarkablefinds over the past two years.

San Casciano had a shrine linked to hot water springs used for healing purposes as far back into the 3rd century B.C., the ministry said. Etruscans and Romans used to throw offerings in there, which are now being excavated.

The latest findings, located almost 5 metres (16 feet) below the ground, include male and female bronze sculptures, including of man cut in half lengthwise, thousands of coins, a gold crown and ring, precious stones, and a series of snake sculptures.

One of these is almost one metre (one yard) long and is likely a representation of Agathos Daimon, a bearded snake-like god with horns from Greek mythology, who may have been the protector of the springs, the ministry said.

It would be the largest bronze sculpture of this god recovered so far, the statement said, noting that smaller examples are held at the British Museum in London and at the National Archaeological Museum in Naples.

Thousands of egg shells were also found, as well as eggs that were intact or with small holes showing the yolk still inside, plus twigs decorated with plants and pine cones, as part of earthly donations to the sanctuary.

San Casciano's artefacts are believed to have been preserved over centuries by the warm mud of the springs. They are due to be put on display in a new museum scheduled to open in the town in late 2026.



Title: China calls on universities to provide 'love education'

Beijing has been promoting various measures to try to make having children more attractive to young couples

Couples take part in pre-wedding photoshoots by the sea in Qingdao, Shandong province, China Apr 21, 2024. REUTERS/Florence Lo

China is urging colleges and universities to provide "love education" to emphasise positive views on marriage, love, fertility and family, in a bid to boost the country's flagging birth rate.

Beijing has been promoting various measures to try to make having children more attractive to young couples after China posted a second consecutive year of population decline in 2023.

China has the second-biggest population in the world at 1.4 billion, but it is ageing quickly, which will increase the demands on government spending in the future and put pressure on the economy.

College students will be the biggest driver of fertility but they have significantly changed their views on marriage and love, the Jiangsu Xinhua newspaper group said, citing China Population News, an official publication.

"Colleges and universities should assume the responsibility of providing marriage and love education to college students by offering marriage and love education courses," the publication said.

The measures would help create a "healthy and positive marriage and childbearing cultural atmosphere."

The state council, or cabinet, rallied local governments in November to direct resources towards fixing China's population decline and spread respect for childbearing and marriages "at the right age," although demographers said the moves were unlikely to resonate with young Chinese.

Around 57% of college students polled by China Population News said they did not want to fall in love, mainly because they did not know how to allocate time to balance the relationship between study and love, the publication said.

Due to the lack of "systematic and scientific marriage and love education, college students have a vague understanding of emotional relationships."

Universities could focus on teaching junior college students about population and national conditions, new marriage and childbearing concepts, it said.

Senior college students and graduate students could be taught through "case analysis, group discussion on maintaining intimate relationships and communication between the sexes."

The courses would be able to help them "improve their ability to correctly understand marriage and love and manage love relationships."



Title: Seized art by Dali, De Chirico showcased in Milan exhibition

The collection spans from the 20th century to early 2000s

A woman walks past sculpture "Disco-Con Sfera" (Disk with sphere) by Arnaldo Pomodoro at exhibition "SalvArti, from Confiscations to Public Collections", a showcase of contemporary artworks coming from confiscations carried out by public authorities against organised crime, in Milan, Italy, Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Claudia Greco

Works by Salvador Dali and Giorgio De Chirico feature in an exhibition of more than 80 paintings and sculptures recovered by Italian authorities from money laundering and mafia probes that opened in Milan on Tuesday.

Hosted at Palazzo Reale, a few steps from Milan's Duomo cathedral, the 'SalvArti' (Save Arts) exhibition of contemporary art also includes works by Andy Warhol, Keith Haring and Arnaldo Pomodoro, the organisers said.

The collection spans from the first half of the 20th century through to the early 2000s.

After a preview in Rome in November, the showcase will continue in Milan until the end of January. It then moves to the southern city of Reggio Calabria, in the heartland of the powerful mafia group 'Ndrangheta, until late April.

The pieces will eventually be distributed to several museums across Italy.



Title: Japanese brewer hopes UNESCO listing makes sake as popular as sushi

The brewing technique will be Japan's 23rd entry on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage

Brewers stir the mixture in a container to make a yeast starter, an important ingredient used in brewing sake, a traditional Japanese rice wine, at Ishikawa Shuzou, or Ishikawa Brewery, in Fussa, western portion of Tokyo, Japan Nov 25, 2024. REUTERS/Issei Kato

At a Tokyo brewery dating back to the days of the samurai, Koichi Maesako drops a 3-metre-long wooden paddle into a giant, jade-coloured tank and gently stirs the white mixture that will turn into sake in a week's time.

The sweet-and-sour-smelling brew - of rice, yeast starter, the culinary mould known as koji and water - has been fermenting for 20 days in what is part of an ancient technique that UNESCO is set to list as Intangible Cultural Heritage this week.

For Maesako, the 40-year-old chief brewer of Ishikawa Shuzou, or Ishikawa Brewery, the UN agency's endorsement would be welcome news after a difficult couple of years.

Unseasonably warm weather has hit the rice harvest, not only affecting the quality of the grain but also raising procurement costs, he said.

Traditional sake brewers had already been contending with decades of falling sales at home as consumers acquired a taste for cocktails like highballs and other alcoholic drinks.

"The situation is much tougher compared to previous years," Maesako told Reuters last week.

"It's still quite warm, even though it's almost December. The price of rice is high and the harvest is poor, which has made sake-brewing (this year) very challenging."

Maesako hopes the UN body's recognition of the traditional brewing technique will turn things around by igniting demand overseas, where sake has slowly gained popularity alongside Japanese cuisine, also in part thanks to UNESCO's endorsement of "washoku" as living heritage in 2013.

"After being listed by UNESCO, Japanese traditional cuisine (washoku) has spread all over the world," Maesako said.

"I hope that the same thing will happen with sake. Our brewery is seeing a rise in exports, and we hope the UNESCO listing will accelerate this trend."

The centuries-old method of making sake is unique for its three-step preparation, or "San-Dan-Jikomi", of allowing multiple fermentation processes to progress simultaneously in a single container.

"It's really cool just seeing and understanding how it all comes together," said Robert Brown, an American visitor at the brewery. "Taking a lot of Japan's history and then turning it into a cultural heritage seems really cool to me."

While sake has lost ground as a regular drink, Maesako said it remains impossible to separate from Japanese culture.

"We have sake at celebrations, at New Year's, and also on sad occasions, like funerals," he said. "The culture of Japanese sake is the culture of Japan itself."

The brewing technique is expected to be formally endorsed at a UNESCO committee session in Paraguay this week. It will be Japan's 23rd entry on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage.



Title: New Greek metro is archaeological window on the past

The project balances modernisation with preservation by displaying artefacts for commuters

A view of a subway station during a visit by Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to admire artefacts unearthed during construction work in Thessaloniki, Greece, Nov 29, 2024. REUTERS/Alexandros Avramidis/Pool

A metro system in Greece's second city Thessaloniki officially opened on Saturday, its stations displaying the same ancient artifacts that nearly derailed the project's completion.

During construction, which began in 2006, workers discovered a Byzantine-era market, a Roman cemetery and other treasures of the city's long and varied history.

The finds stalled the metro's progress and raised questions about how the city would modernise while protecting its rich past. The answer was to blend the two by displaying the uncovered artefacts for modern-day commuters to enjoy.

"This is not just a public works project, which is incredibly important for the city. It is also a museum," Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said before visiting the Venizelou station for a private tour on Friday.

"It's probably unique in the world. We will go through an underground museum to reach the train."

The metro took nearly 20 years to complete, in part because of funding problems during Greece's 2009-2018 debt crisis. It is the first such system in Greece outside Athens.

Builders had to dig deeper than originally planned - up to 31 metres (102 feet) - to make sure the tunnels ran below the archaeological findings, according to the project's contractor.

"It is an opportunity for Thessaloniki to become a second Rome, in terms of antiquities," said Melina Paisidou, one of the archaeologists to discover the relics underground.



Title: Excitement, relief in Paris as Notre-Dame Cathedral prepares to reopen

Major reconstruction restores Notre-Dame’s spire, windows, gargoyles, and ornate brilliance

A view of the facade of Notre-Dame de Paris cathedral in Paris, on Nov 29, 2024, ahead of a visit of the French President. The Notre-Dame Cathedral is set to re-open early December 2024, with a planned weekend of ceremonies on Dec 7 and 8, 2024, five years after the 2019 fire which ravaged the world heritage landmark and toppled its spire. STEPHANE DE SAKUTIN/Pool via REUTERS

Paris' Notre-Dame Cathedral will reopen its doors next week to tourists and the Catholic faithful, five-and-a-half years after fire gutted the Gothic masterpiece, one of the French capital's most beloved and visited monuments.

President Emmanuel Macron was one of the first to catch a glimpse of the newly renovated cathedral on Friday morning. He appeared impressed by the spectacular light pouring into the nave after the cathedral's windows were renewed and its white stones cleaned.

"This is overwhelming", the president said as he took an extensive tour along with his wife Brigitte and some officials, shaking hands with many of the master craftsmen who had taken part in the renovation.

Major reconstruction works have restored the 12th-century cathedral, its spire, rib vaulting, flying buttresses, stained-glass windows and carved stone gargoyles to their past glory, with the white stone and gold decorations shining brighter than ever.

It is a far cry from the evening of Apr 15, 2019, when TV viewers in France and worldwide watched with horror as the cathedral's roof and spire burst into flames and collapsed in a raging fire that also threatened the main bell towers, which narrowly avoided destruction.

Firefighters worked through the night to save the cathedral, and for more than five years, thousands of expert craftspeople used age-old methods to restore, repair or replace everything that was destroyed or damaged.

"It was an exceptional renovation project," stone-carver Samir Abbas, 38, said, relieved at having finished on schedule, while waiting along with some 1,300 other workers in front of the cathedral for Macron's arrival.

An opening ceremony - to which celebrities and heads of state have been invited - is planned for the evening of Dec 7, followed by days of special Masses to celebrate the reopening and to thank those who helped save and rebuild the cathedral.

So much money poured in for the renovation from all over the world - more than 840 million euros ($882 million), according to Macron's office - that there are still funds left over for further investment in the building.

The Catholic Church now expects the cathedral to welcome some 15 million visitors annually.

"We are very eager to welcome the whole world under the roof of our cathedral," Paris' Archbishop Laurent Ulrich said in a message on the cathedral website, expressing the Church's gratitude to all those who helped save it.

"On the night of April 15, hundreds of thousands of people committed themselves to what then seemed an impossible bet: to restore the cathedral and give it back its splendour within the unprecedented deadline of five years."

'IT'S A RELIEF'

The guest-list for the reopening ceremony has not yet been published, but one source said US President-elect Donald Trump was among those invited, along with other heads of state, royalty and celebrities.

US President Joe Biden's wife Jill will attend the ceremony while Trump has not yet responded, a source familiar with the planning said.

Parisians expressed excitement and relief on Friday at the prospect of the cathedral reopening.

"I'm so happy," said 50-year-old architect Sebastien Truchot, who lives nearby. "Whether you believe in God or not, Notre-Dame is a universal symbol, and it's amazing to have it back and to rediscover it."

Albert Abid, a bookseller whose stall stands on the quay, was shocked to see it burn five years ago. "It's a relief. Finally, Notre Dame is restored," he said.



Title: Kite-making picks up in India's Gujarat as harvest festival nears

Gujarat's kite industry employs 130,000, despite a brief flying season

Kite enthusiasts fly kites during the eight-day-long International Kite Festival in Ahmedabad, India, Jan 7, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

Huddled over piles of colourful paper, Mohammad Yunus is one among thousands of workers in India's western state of Gujarat who make kites by hand that are used during a major harvest festival.

People in Gujarat celebrate Uttarayan, a Hindu festival in mid-January that celebrates the end of winter by flying kites held by glass-coated or plastic strings.

"The kite may seem like a small item but it takes a long time to make it. Many people are involved in it and their livelihoods depend on it," Yunus, a Muslim who comes to Gujarat from neighbouring Rajasthan state to make kites during the peak season, told Reuters.

More than 130,000 people are involved in kite-making throughout Gujarat, according to government estimates, many of whom work from homes to make kites that cost as little as five rupees (6 US cents).

At the start of the two-day festival, people rent roofs and terraces from those who have access to them, and gather there to fly colourful kites that criss-cross each other in the sky.

Gujarat is a hub of the kite industry in the country, boasting a market worth 6.50 billion Indian rupees ($76.58 million), and the state accounts for about 65% of the total number of kites made in India.

While the kite flying season in the state is limited to almost just 2 or 3 days in January, the industry runs year-round providing employment to about 130,000 people in the state, according to government figures.

But these paper birds are also harmful and can be fatal, especially kites that have plastic strings, which can cause serious cuts to birds in the sky, killing and injuring thousands of them during the festival.

At least 18 people died from kite related injures across Gujarat during this year's Uttarayan festival, including being cut by a string and getting electrocuted while trying to extricate a kite from an electric pole, local media reported.



Title: Dias injury latest blow in Manchester City's calamitous run

Defender Akanji has returned to training after injury, boosting Guardiola's squad

Football - Premier League - Manchester City v Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - Dec 15, 2024 Manchester United's Rasmus Hojlund in action with Manchester City's Ruben Dias Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff/File Photo

Manchester City will be without defender Ruben Dias for three to four weeks with a muscle injury, manager Pep Guardiola said on Friday, another blow for the reeling champions whose hopes of hanging on to the Premier League title are dwindling.

City travel to Aston Villa on Saturday hoping to right the ship amid the worst run of results in Guardiola's managerial career that has them languishing fifth in the league table. They also have just one victory to show for their last 11 games across all competitions.

Dias was injured in City's calamitous 2-1 derby loss to Manchester United on Sunday.

"It was a muscular injury, (after) 75 minutes against Manchester United he felt something. He is so strong and he stayed on the pitch and now he is injured," Guardiola told reporters on Friday.

Fellow defender Manuel Akanji, however, returned to training this week after suffering an injury early this month, "which is good for us," Guardiola said.

City lost to United in spectacular fashion last weekend, leading in the 88th minute before their cross-town rivals scored two goals in less than two minutes.

Guardiola looked disconsolate after, and pointed the finger squarely at himself for the shocking run, telling reporters during a long and heartfelt post-game press conference that "I am not good enough."

His mood had improved by Friday.

"I just finished a game where we were close to winning and we lost. For the sequences that happened I was not happy," Guardiola said. "I tried to be honest with myself here right now in six or seven days ago, (but) if you fall down six times you have to stand up seven.

"I am fine. I am a normal person with feelings like all of us. When a situation is going well we are better and when it is not going well professionally we are more (focused) on what we have to do."

Just two points and two places behind Guardiola's team in the league table, Aston Villa will climb over City with a victory on Saturday at Villa Park.

Unai Emery's team have also had significantly more success than City in their Champions League campaign, where they are fifth in the standings with two games left in the league phase while City are languishing in 22nd.

"I'm not surprised. Top, excellent manager. (They had good success) qualifying for the Champions League and the results in the Champions League they speak for themselves," Guardiola said. "They are handling it well because when I have been in many clubs handling both competitions, they have done really well."

City lost 1-0 at Villa Park just over a year ago before rebounding to thrash Emery's side 4-1 in early-April. Guardiola said, however, there was little he could glean from those games.

"Why do you have to compare what happened?" the Spaniard said. "The past is the past, this is a new moment, you have to deal with it."



Title: Pakistan outplay South Africa to earn 81-run ODI win at Newlands

South Africa's batters faltered as Pakistan claimed regular wickets

Cricket - T20 World Cup - Semi Final - South Africa v Afghanistan - Brian Lara Stadium, Tarouba, Trinidad and Tobago - Jun 26, 2024 South Africa's Anrich Nortje in action REUTERS/Ash Allen/File Photo

Shaheen Shah Afridi produced a spell of high-quality seam bowling as Pakistan claimed their One-Day International series against South Africa with a game to spare following a comprehensive 81-run victory at Newlands on Thursday.

Pakistan have an unassailable 2-0 lead ahead of the third and final fixture in Johannesburg on Sunday.

South Africa surprisingly sent the visitors into bat on a ground where it is known to be difficult to chase under lights, and Pakistan posted an above-par 329 all out.

Heinrich Klaasen provided the only real resistance for South Africa with an excellent 97 from 74 balls but was the last man out as they were dismissed for 248 in 43.1 overs, having been outplayed in all facets of the game.

Captain Mohammad Rizwan scored 80 from 82 balls to anchor the Pakistan innings, but the impetus for their total came from a superb 63 from 32 deliveries by Kamran Ghulam.

Babar Azam provided 73 in 95 deliveries with the visitors profiting from some sloppy South African fielding as they dropped numerous catches and were not accurate enough with the ball.

Debutant fast bowler Kwena Maphaka, 18, returned figures of 4-72 in his 10 overs, the pick of a disappointing bowling effort from South Africa.

Several of the home side’s batters got starts but Pakistan picked up wickets at regular intervals and Klaasen ran out of partners in the chase.

Afridi showed superb control and recorded figures of 4-47 as he ripped through the South African middle order, removing the dangerous David Miller for 29 to take the game away from the home side.



Title: Barcelona unhappy with recent run but will fight to the end, says Flick

They lead LaLiga with 38 points, ahead of Atletico and Real

Football - Champions League - Borussia Dortmund v FC Barcelona - Signal Iduna Park, Dortmund, Germany - Dec 11, 2024 FC Barcelona coach Hansi Flick reacts REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay

Barcelona will battle until the end to win titles, according to head coach Hansi Flick, who said he was unhappy with their current situation as they look to avoid a third consecutive home defeat in LaLiga when they host Atletico Madrid on Saturday.

After a superb start to the season which saw them win 14 of their first 16 matches across all competitions, Barcelona lost their way domestically with Sunday's 1-0 home defeat to 15th-placed Leganes leaving them with one victory in their last six league games.

But they remain top of the LaLiga table with 38 points, level with second-placed Atletico and one point ahead of Real Madrid in third, with both their title rivals having a game in hand.

To make matters worse for the Catalan side, Atletico have been in terrific form ahead of the highly-anticipated clash at the Lluis Companys Olympic Stadium, having won their last 11 matches in all competitions.

"What I can feel in the city and the supporters know what the team is like. We lost five important players. (Attacking midfielder) Dani Olmo and (forward) Pau Victor are the (new) signings. The team has improved and is focused," Flick told reporters on Friday.

"We are not happy with the situation, but we are going to fight until the end of the season. We want to win titles, but we know it won't be easy. But we want to win, that's what we want to do tomorrow."

The German said there will be little room for error if they are to win against Atletico, but they were ready for the occasion.

"It's the end of the year. It's a great game. It's one of the best rivals. But today is Dec. 20 and we're first in LaLiga and second in the Champions League. We are not bad. We lost some points against Las Palmas (2-1 loss) and Leganes, we have to recover them," Flick added.

"Tomorrow is another game. We have a young team and we have to fight and improve. We want to achieve great things. But we know it won't be easy. We have to start fighting tomorrow. We are playing against great teams."

Barcelona have suffered a blow with winger Lamine Yamal suffering an ankle injury during their loss against Leganes. The 17-year-old Spain international is expected to be out for three to four weeks.

"We have to accept that he is injured and won't be able to play," Flick said.



Title: U-19 Women's Asia Cup: Bangladesh breeze past Nepal to set up final clash with India

The Tigresses beat Nepal by 9 wickets in Kuala Lumpur

Bangladesh have trounced Nepal by 9 wickets to secure a berth in the final of the Under-19 Women’s Asia Cup.

On Friday, the young Tigresses bounced back in style from their earlier loss to India in the Super Four stage opener in Kuala Lumpur.

In a rain-curtailed 11-over game, Nepal managed just 54 runs, which Bangladesh chased down comfortably in 9.5 overs.

Bangladesh will face India in the final on Sunday at the same venue.

After winning the toss, Bangladesh opted to field and immediately put pressure on Nepal. A combination of tight bowling and poor running between the wickets left Nepal struggling. Three of their first four wickets were run-outs within the first six overs.

Nepal's highest partnership was a 19-run stand between captain Puja Mahato and Sabitri Dhami for the second wicket. Dhami, the only batter to reach double figures, scored 11 off 12 balls.

Farjana Easmin, Anisa Akter, Fahomida Choya, and Habiba Islam chipped in with a wicket apiece for Bangladesh.

Chasing a modest target, openers Fahomida and Mosammat Eva got the Tigresses off to a flying start. Fahmida struck boundaries in consecutive overs, while Eva hit the only six of the match in the fifth over.

The opening partnership of 46 runs ended in the eighth over when Eva was bowled by Kusum Godar for 18 off 21 balls. However, Fahomida guided her team across the finish line with an unbeaten 26 off 32 balls, alongside Sumaiya Akhter, who added 10 runs off six balls.

Fahomida was named Player of the Match for her all-round performance.

Match Summary:

Nepal U-19: 54/8 in 11 overs (Dhami 11, Mahato 9; Farzana 1/13, Anisa 1/10, Fahomida 1/14, Habiba 1/11)

Bangladesh U-19: 58/1 in 9.5 overs (Fahomida 26*, Eva 18, Sumaiya 10*)

Result: Bangladesh won by 9 wickets.

Player of the Match: Fahomida Choya



Title: Bangladesh crush West Indies by 80 runs to complete T20 series sweep

After setting a daunting target of 190, the visitors bundle out the Caribbean side for 109 runs to win the third T20

Bangladesh have romped to a resounding 80-run win in the third and final T20 match against the West Indies to sweep the series 3-0. This is Bangladesh's biggest win in T20Is against the Caribbean side.

The Tigers had only achieved whitewashes in T20 series twice before: against England at home last year and against Ireland away in 2012.

However, this victory carries extra significance. Coming on the heels of a disappointing ODI series whitewash, and achieved without key players like regular captain Najmul Hossain Shanto, Towhid Hridoy, and Mustafizur Rahman, the triumph marks a memorable end to a challenging year for Bangladesh cricket.

The match in St Vincent on Friday morning Bangladesh time saw Parvez Hossain Emon returning to the side and giving the team a solid start with the bat. Jaker Ali then stole the show with a blistering knock, helping the visitors post a commanding total of 189 runs in their 20 overs.

In reply, the West Indies collapsed for just 109 runs to hand a remarkable victory to Bangladesh.

Jaker lit up the match with a breathtaking 72* off just 41 balls, smashing six sixes and displaying incredible skill, power, and match awareness. Earlier in the tour, he impressed with two brilliant Test innings and solid ODI performances. He capped off the T20 series by dismantling the West Indies bowlers with ease.

Once Jaker set the tone, the Bangladeshi bowlers completed the job with minimal fuss. Rishad Hossain, who has had an outstanding year, posted his career-best figures of 3 wickets for 21 runs. Taskin Ahmed, Mahedi Hasan, and Hasan Mahmud also bowled with precision and rhythm to put the squeeze on one of the most dangerous teams in cricket's shortest format.

DOMINANT START

After winning toss and electing to bat, Bangladesh dominated from the get-go in Kingstown. Parvez, stepping in for the injured Soumya Sarkar, began with a classy boundary and soon showcased his power hitting. Alongside skipper Litton Das, he put up a brisk opening stand of 40 runs in the first four overs.

However, Litton’s promising start, highlighted by three elegant boundaries, ended in disappointment as he was dismissed for a run-a-ball 13. Parvez followed soon after, falling for a quickfire 39 off 20 balls, including four boundaries and two sixes.

The momentum slowed after Tanzid Hasan’s brief cameo, where he struck a six before being dismissed. The Tigers managed only 36 runs between the fifth and 10th overs. Mehidy Hasan Miraz attempted to hit the accelerator, scoring a handy 29 off 22 balls, but his innings ended prematurely.

Then came Jaker's moment. Starting cautiously with just 10 runs off 13 balls, he switched gears in the 14th over with a slog-swept six off Gudakesh Motie. Surviving a near run-out, Jaker took complete control, dominating the West Indies bowlers. His range of shots cleared every part of the ground—long-on, mid-wicket, and extra cover.

Despite quick dismissals of Shamim Hossain (2) and Mahedi (0), Jaker continued the onslaught. In the last five overs, he smashed five sixes and two boundaries, including a colossal 95-metre six off Obed McCoy. He brought up his fifty in style with a boundary off Alzarri Joseph and finished the innings by hammering three sixes in a 25-run final over as Bangladesh ended with a commanding total of 189 for 6.

CLINICAL BOWLING DISPLAY

Defending the target, Bangladesh struck early. Taskin bowled an outswinger followed by an inswinger to trap Brandon King leg-before for a duck in the first over.

Mahedi then dismissed debutant Justin Greaves in the second over. While Johnson Charles and Nicholas Pooran counterattacked briefly, adding 34 runs in three overs, Bangladesh hit back quickly. Mahedi dismissed Pooran (15 off 10) for the third time in the series, and Hasan Mahmud kept Roston Chase scoreless. Rishad’s brilliant direct hit ran out Charles (18 off 23), and soon after, he dismissed Rovman Powell with the ball.

The West Indies collapsed, losing four wickets for just 14 runs, leaving them teetering at 60/6. Romario Shepherd tried to rescue his side with a spirited 33 off 27 balls, but his efforts only helped the hosts cross 100 as Bangladesh cruised to a comprehensive victory.

Brief Score:

Bangladesh: 189/7 in 20 overs (Litton 14, Parvez 39, Tanzid 9, Miraz 29, Jaker 72* (41 balls, 6 sixes), Shamim 2, Mahedi 0, Tanzim 17, Rishad 0*; Shepherd 4-0-30-2, Joseph 4-0-59-1, Chase 4-0-15-1, Motie 3-0-30-1)

West Indies: 109 in 16.4 overs (King 0, Charles 23, Greaves 6, Pooran 15, Chase 0, Powell 2, Shepherd 33, Akeal 31, Motie 12, Joseph 1, McCoy 5, Seales 4*; Rishad 4-0-21-3, Taskin 3.4-0-30-2, Mahedi 3-0-13-2, Hasan 3-0-9-1, Tanzim 3-0-31-1)

Result: Bangladesh won by 80 runs

Series result: Bangladesh won the 3-match series 3-0

Player of the Match: Jaker Ali

Player of the Series: Mahedi Hasan



Title: Argentina still best in the world, says FIFA

They keep top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year

Copa America 2024 - Final - Argentina v Colombia - Hard Rock Stadium, Miami, Florida, United States - Jul 15, 2024 Argentina's Lionel Messi lifts the trophy as he celebrates with teammates after winning Copa America 2024 REUTERS/Agustin Marcarian

Reigning world champions Argentina have kept top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year, with no changes in the top 10 of the latest list published on Thursday.

Lionel Scaloni's Argentina, who were crowned Copa America champions for a record 16th time after they beat Colombia in July, continue to lead the way ahead of second-placed France and Euro 2024 winners Spain in third.

Euro runners-up England, Brazil, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and Germany were next in the top 10.

Angola were the biggest mover of the year, climbing 32 places to finish 85th.



