Category: https://bdnews24.com/economy

Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



Title: Trump, not yet in office, already a figure in global economic policy

The US central bankers pencil in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS

The world's economic reckoning with the incoming Trump administration kicked off in earnest this week, with the US Federal Reserve flagging fewer rate cuts, a resignation in Canada over budgeting for tariffs and a heightened focus on cryptocurrencies.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday amid a busy year-end run of central bank meetings from Ottawa and Frankfurt to Tokyo and London that showed heightened uncertainty ahead of Donald Trump entering the White House in the new year.

Indeed, Fed officials not only dialled back projections for rate cuts in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were also trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

The upshot was US central bankers pencilled in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation.

That left Powell repeatedly urging "caution" around additional rate cuts from here, which triggered a slide in stock prices and a recalibration of market estimates for further easing. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and started to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said when asked if Trump's policies factored into officials' thinking.

"Some people said they didn't do so, and some people didn't say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that but some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their writing down more uncertainty around inflation."

In Asia, The Bank of Japan on Thursday kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"Uncertainty surrounding Japan's economy and prices remains high," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment, something BOJ officials may have to reckon with as the world's lone developed central bank is still trying to tighten policy.

Ahead of the Fed decision, rates had already been lowered last week by the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada, with both expected to deliver some additional easing in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Rate decisions are still due in the coming hours from central banks in Sweden, Norway and the United Kingdom.

UPHEAVAL

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Freeland said the threat of new US tariffs represented a grave danger after Trump last month warned he would issue levies on goods imported from Canada and Mexico of 25% unless the two neighbours limit the flow of migrants and fentanyl into the US.

"That means keeping our fiscal powder dry today, so we have the reserves we may need for a tariff war. That means eschewing costly political gimmicks, which we can ill afford," she wrote in a letter to Trudeau posted on X.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said the Fed had no legal authority to hold it, adding declaratively that it had no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

"That's the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed," Powell said.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: IMF agrees to release $650mn for Bangladesh’s fourth loan tranche

Bangladesh reaches agreement with the international lender on additional $750mn funding

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, has agreed to release $650 million for Bangladesh as part of the fourth tranche of its loan programme.

In addition, the international lender has reached a staff-level agreement with the Bangladesh to provide an extra $750 million in funding.

The additional financing aims to support the country’s foreign currency reserves, facilitate financial sector reforms, and help manage increasing economic pressures.

If approved by the IMF Executive Board, Bangladesh's total loan amount under the programme will increase from $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion.

As per the earlier plan, Bangladesh was scheduled to receive the loan in equal instalments by 2026.

The IMF team announced the agreement in a press release on Wednesday, following discussions with different government agencies, including the Bangladesh Bank, during their visit to Dhaka.

The release of the fourth tranche and approval of the new loan will depend on the decision of the IMF Executive Board, which will review the delegation's findings in an upcoming meeting.

The Washington-based financial institution concluded its meetings with policymakers and officials after a 13-strong delegation, headed by Chris Papageorgiou, assessed the implementation of policies during their visit from Dec 4 to Dec 18.

“Following the evaluation of the third tranche, we have reached an understanding with the Bangladeshi authorities on implementing the required policies. The final decision rests with the IMF Board,” said Chris.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha confirmed to bdnews24.com that the country will receive $650 million in the fourth tranche.



Title: Asia wary of Fed rate outlook, high bond yields

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway

Asian share markets were in a wary mood on Monday as surging bond yields challenged equity valuations, particularly for the richly priced tech sector, in a week packed with central bank meetings and major economic data.

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway.

The Federal Reserve will lead the pack on Wednesday with markets pricing a 96% probability it will cut rates by 25 basis points to a new range of 4.25% to 4.50%.

More important will be any guidance on future easing, including the "dot plot" forecasts of Fed members for rates over the next couple of years.

"We look for the updated dots to signal a median expectation for three cuts next year, down from four in the September projection," said JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli. "The median longer-run dot, which was 2.875% in September, we see moving up to 3% or maybe even 3.125%."

"That said, given the vagaries of trade and other policies next year, the signal from the dots may be even less useful than ordinarily."

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Yields on 10-year notes were up at 4.39%, having climbed 24 basis points last week alone, and threatening to breach a major bear target at 4.50%.

Rising yields make bonds more attractive versus equities while lifting the level that future cash flows are discounted at and possibly the cost of capital for companies.

Bitcoin grabbed the spotlight in early Asian trade on Monday, surging to a record high above $105,000 as it extended gains on bets Trump's return will usher in a cryptocurrency-friendly regulatory environment.

S&P 500 futures were a fraction lower on Monday, while Nasdaq futures eased 0.1%.

CHINA STRUGGLES

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed, having been flat last week.

Japan's Nikkei edged up 0.1%, while South Korea bounced 0.7% on pledges of government support.

China's blue chip index took a hit on Friday as investors awaited more detail on possible stimulus steps.

Over the weekend, an official at China's central bank said it had room to further cut the reserve requirement ratio, though credit numbers out last week showed past easing had done little to boost borrowing.

Figures on Chinese retail sales, industrial production and house prices for November are due out later Monday.

A range of surveys on global manufacturing are also due Monday, while US retail sales is due on Tuesday and a major inflation report on Friday.

The Bank of Japan, Bank of England and Norges Bank are expected to stand pat on Thursday, while the Riksbank is seen cutting rates and perhaps by 50 basis points.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

The dollar likewise held firm on the yen at 153.53 , having jumped almost 2.5% last week. The dollar index stood at 106.870 , after rising 0.9% last week.

The euro looked wobbly at $1.0508 , not helped by news ratings agency Moody's unexpectedly downgraded France on Friday.

The action came a few hours after French President Macron appointed veteran centrist Francois Bayrou as the country’s fourth premier in a year.

Political uncertainty was also clouding South Korea where the finance ministry vowed to support markets after President Yoon Suk Yeol was impeached.

A firm dollar combined with higher bond yields to restrain gold at $2,685 an ounce.

Bitcoin was having better luck, breaking above $105,000 for the first time and was last fetching $104,955.

Oil prices were supported around three-week highs by expectations that additional sanctions on Russia and Iran could tighten supplies.

Brent was down 2 cents at $74.47 a barrel, while US crude eased 12 cents to $71.17 per barrel.



Title: ADP progress rate for first 5 months sinks to lowest in 15 years

Experts blame the slowdown to political disruptions, power transition, a worsening law and order, and administrative reshuffles

Bangladesh’s development work, which slowed down during the power transition, has not regained momentum, impacting the implementation of the interim government’s ADP under a “go-slow” policy.

In the five months to November of the current 2024-25 fiscal year, ADP implementation reached 12.29 percent compared with 17.06 percent during the same period last year – marking a decline of 4.77 percentage points.

According to data released by the Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division, or IMED, of the planning ministry, ADP progress in the first five months has not been this low in the last 15 fiscal years.

Experts attribute the slowdown to disruptions caused by political movements, the power transition in August, a worsening law and order, and administrative reshuffles, which have collectively hindered the implementation of government development programmes.

According to the latest statistics released by the IMED, Tk 342.14 billion was spent under the ADP during the July-November period of the current fiscal year. This is significantly lower than the Tk 468.57 billion spent during the same period last fiscal year.

In percentage terms, the lowest ADP implementation rate was 16.84 percent in the 2015-16 fiscal year.

The deposed Awami League government had allocated roughly Tk 2.78 trillion for the ADP in the current fiscal year when the budget was passed.

After the Awami League was removed from power, the interim government prioritised project implementation based on necessity. As a result, funding for many projects initiated by the previous government was reduced, leading to the suspension of several ongoing projects. Consequently, overall ADP expenditure declined, according to relevant officials.

The latest IMED report reveals that the implementation rate for November was 4.40 percent, or Tk 122.36 billion, compared with 5.52 percent in November of the 2023-24 fiscal year. Typically, ADP spending is lower in the early months of a fiscal year, but political instability has further reduced the rate this time.

In the previous fiscal years—2020-21, 2021-22, and 2022-23—the ADP implementation rates for the first five months were 17.93 percent, 18.61 percent, and 18.41 percent, respectively.

Speaking at a workshop on Monday, Prof M Abu Yusuf of the Development Studies Department at Dhaka University noted that the decline in ADP implementation is "not surprising" given the current circumstances.

A member of the White Paper Committee on the economy, he added: "However, the interim government must consider how to provide relief to the general public during this period of high inflation."

Despite being in office for four months, Prof Yusuf noted, the government has yet to provide clear guidelines on how the annual programme of planned public sector projects should proceed, he added.

"If just 2.3 percent of the current fiscal year’s budget were reallocated to three key food-based social safety net programmes, it would double the allocation for these initiatives," he explained.

The three key programmes—combining urban and rural areas—are the Food-Friendly Programme, or FFP, Open Market Sales, or OMS, and Food for Work, or FFW.



Title: Future tax incentives for businesses will be reduced, says Salehuddin

The finance advisor points out the failure of regulatory bodies to act against rule-breakers

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has suggested reducing the incentives or tax breaks currently offered to businesses in the future.

"It is not possible to keep giving tax breaks forever. Logical taxes must be paid, and only reasonable exemptions will be granted,” he said during the annual conference of the International Business Forum of Bangladesh, or IBFB, in Dhaka on Sunday.

Referring to discussions with the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, Salehuddin said: “This morning, we had a meeting with the IMF. They are saying that tax exemptions must be reduced.”

The advisor said Bangladesh cricket all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan should have been fined two years ago for market manipulation.

He also pointed out that regulatory bodies such as Bangladesh Bank and the National Board of Revenue, or NBR, had failed to curb corruption.

“Banks, financial institutions, businessmen, and different organisations have broken the law, but no appropriate actions have been taken against them," said Salehuddin.

He added, "So, the blame cannot only be placed on politicians; these regulatory bodies are also at fault."

Salehuddin, the former governor of the Bangladesh Bank, highlighted that regulatory bodies had manipulated data on multiple occasions.

"Qualified people were not allowed to work in these areas. Even when they wanted to, their efforts were blocked by undue influence," he said.



Title: Italy sees weaker 2024 GDP, with industrial sector in trouble, economy minister says

The government in September set an unadjusted 1% growth target for this year

A view shows Milan's skyline during sunset in Milan, Italy, July 6, 2023. REUTERS

Italy will likely end this year with an annual economic growth rate of 0.7%, Economy Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti said on Thursday, warning that the industrial sector risked slumping.

Speaking at a political event promoted by Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's Brothers of Italy party, Giorgetti said the estimate was adjusted for the number of days worked.

The government in September set an unadjusted 1% growth target for this year.

Giorgetti said the disappointing performance of Germany's economy was weighing on Italy, adding that the industry sector was the main cause of concern for the government.

"We see signs of a nosedive," he said.

However, the GDP downward revision "doesn't change our public finance targets," the minister added.

Italy hopes to bring its deficit below the European Union's 3% of gross domestic product (GDP) ceiling in 2026 from 3.8 targeted this year.

Part of the lower-than-expected growth is also related to delays in spending European Union's post-COVID recovery funds, which has impacted the economy.

Italy is due to receive 194.4 billion euros ($203.81 billion) in cheap loans and grants from the bloc's Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) by 2026, more than any other state in absolute terms.

Speaking at the same event on Thursday, EU Affairs Minister Tommaso Foti said Italy wanted to replace some planned projects that Rome will be unable to complete by the 2026 deadline, with others that could be wrapped up within the allowed timeframe.

"We are going towards a rescheduling next February," Foti said.

To support the economy, the government wants to cut the IRES corporate tax for those companies that make investments and new hirings under certain conditions.

The measure has an estimated cost of around 400 million euros, which Giorgetti said Rome planned to cover by seeking an additional contributions from banks.

Italy expects to raise more than 5 billion euros from the financial sector over the next three years through a package of measures already included in the government's 2025 budget.



Title: US regulator's 'problem bank' list grows as industry profits dip

The total assets for banks on that list climbed $3.9 billion to $87.3 billion, the FDIC said

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp (FDIC) logo is seen in this photo.  www.investopedia.com

A top US bank regulator added two banks to its so-called "problem bank" list in the third quarter, while overall industry profits dipped 8.6%, the regulator said.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation typically does not identify firms that are added to the list, which includes banks that have received particularly low confidential scores from bank supervisors. FDIC Chairman Martin Gruenberg said the overall level of problem banks, now totaling 68 firms or 1.5% of all banks, is "not atypical."

The total assets for banks on that list climbed $3.9 billion to $87.3 billion, the FDIC said.

On Thursday, the FDIC reported quarterly profits for the banking sector were down slightly after banks enjoyed a one-time surge in the prior quarter.

The slightly lower profits were primarily due to the fact that banks reported one-time gains on equity security transactions in the second quarter. But those missing funds were partially offset by strong net interest income and growing revenue, the regulator said in its quarterly profit report. Bank profits were up slightly when compared with first-quarter numbers.

"The banking industry continued to show resilience in the third quarter. Net interest income and the net interest margin increased substantially this quarter," Gruenberg said in a prepared statement.

There were some signs of caution in the latest figures. The ratio of past-due or non-accrual loans in the commercial real estate sector ticked up to 2.07%, the highest level recorded since 2013, as borrowers continue to grapple with high levels of office vacancies following the COVID-19 pandemic.

Overall though, the latest FDIC report suggests stability in the banking sector. Net interest income rose by $4.5 billion in the quarter, the net interest margin was up for banks of all sizes, and deposits rose 1.1% to $194.6 billion. Unrealised losses on securities fell 29%, as overall interest rates fell.



Title: HSBC, World Bank's IFC launch $1bn trade finance programme for emerging markets

The deal aims to support cross-border trade and bolster exports in critical industries as economies face geopolitical tensions and trade barriers

A view of the logo of HSBC bank on a wall outside a branch in Mexico City, Mexico June 14, 2024. REUTERS

HSBC  and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFC) will jointly provide funding to trade transactions valued at up to $1 billion, in a move to help fill a gap in financing for emerging market trade.

IFC and HSBC said on Thursday they would equally share the risk on a portfolio of trade-related assets held by emerging-market banks in 20 countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East, according to a joint statement.

The deal aims to support cross-border trade and bolster exports in critical industries as economies face geopolitical tensions and trade barriers that could create uncertainty for supply chains and threaten economic growth.

"There is a substantial and ongoing trade-finance gap in emerging markets in the Asia-Pacific region," said Riccardo Puliti, IFC's regional vice president for Asia Pacific, in the statement.

Demand for trade finance far outpaces supply, especially in emerging markets, with the global trade finance gap last estimated at $2.5 trillion, according to a report from the Asian Development Bank.

"Reducing the trade finance gap and improving access to finance will be central to fostering growth and sustainability across Asia and the region's supply chains," said Aditya Gahlaut, co-head of global trade solutions, Asia Pacific, at HSBC in the statement.

The new facility is set up under IFC's Global Trade Liquidity Program, which has supported more than $80 billion in global trade volume through nearly 30,000 transactions over the past 20 years.



Title: ADB approves $600mn loan for Bangladesh amid revenue crunch

The loan will help improve transparency and accountability while boosting domestic resource mobilisation, says the agency

The Asian Development Bank, or ADB, has approved a $600 million loan to support Bangladesh as it navigates a challenging period in revenue collection.

This loan will support efforts to improve domestic resource mobilisation, alongside other initiatives to strengthen the country’s economic framework.

On Wednesday, Govinda Bar, the team leader of external affairs at ADB's Bangladesh Resident Mission, shared details of the loan authorisation in a statement.

With a tax-to-GDP ratio of only 7.4 percent, the lowest in the world, Bangladesh is grappling with major hurdles in revenue collection.

This is referred to as “policy-based” lending, aimed at strengthening the country's domestic resource management, improving public investment efficiency, supporting structural reforms for private sector development, and enhancing transparency and good governance.

The loan programme includes initiatives for digitalisation, “green” projects, rationalising tax incentives, and boosting taxpayer morale.

One of the objectives is to enhance the transparency and efficiency of government investment projects through digitalisation.

The loan aims to simplify the country’s regulatory environment, promote private sector development, and encourage foreign direct investment by offering “equal benefits” for all.

To facilitate business operations, an integrated online platform has been created, which will offer over 130 services.

ADB Regional Lead Economist Aminur Rahman said, "Following the political shift in Bangladesh, ADB is supporting the country’s rapid development efforts with this loan.”

“Following the political shift in Bangladesh, ADB is committed to supporting the country’s rapid development through this loan.

He added, “The reform goals will focus on improving economic management, governance, and competitiveness.”



Title: Why didn't 'all-knowing' Bangladesh Bank, BFIU stop money being smuggled out of the country?

Experts blame the regulators for turning a blind eye despite clear signs of financial misconduct

Fresh findings from the interim government’s White Paper Committee on money laundering have given rise to questions about why Bangladesh Bank and the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit, or BFIU, the nation’s top financial watchdogs, did not step in to stop the illicit flow of funds.

Despite existing laws and regulations, money laundering through the banking sector has risen over time, and financial sector experts believe the two regulatory bodies cannot dodge the blame for this.

Experts argue that it was the responsibility of these agencies to curb illicit financial flows.

However, instead of stepping in, they allegedly aided in the laundering process.

Transparency International Bangladesh, or TIB, Executive Director Iftekharuzzaman directly blamed officials of both organisations for their failure, suggesting that their negligence outweighed any legal weaknesses.

The white paper submitted to Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus on Dec 1 estimates that during the 15-year reign of the ousted Awami League government, around $16 billion was laundered out of the country annually.

The committee, set up to assess the state of the nation’s economy, said $240 billion, equivalent to Tk 28.8 trillion at current exchange rates, was siphoned out of the country during the Awami League’s three consecutive terms in power.

The BFIU, tasked with tackling irregularities in the financial sector and preventing money laundering, failed to act effectively, despite being aware of the scale of the crime.

The unit’s former chief Abu Hena Md Razee Hassan, who also served as deputy governor of Bangladesh Bank, pointed to political pressure and restrictions from senior officials as key obstacles that hindered his department’s efforts to combat these activities.

Al Amin, a professor in the Department of Accounting and Information Systems at Dhaka University, told bdnews24.com: “International research group Global Financial Integrity [GFI] says money laundering increased because of the corrupt actions of regulators, government officials, businesspeople, and bureaucrats. The whole system has been working together. The regulators and officials definitely know who are behind it."

Bankers and industry insiders have claimed that most money laundering occurred via banking channels, raising concerns about whether the central bank’s measures were sufficient to tackle the issue.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Sikha told bdnews24.com, “It’s not possible to comment on such a major issue immediately. If you submit a written query, we can respond after consulting with the governor.”

bdnews24.com submitted written questions over a week ago, but no response was received from the central bank as of Tuesday.

Governor Ahsan H Mansur also did not respond to attempts for comment.

NEW INITIATIVES

Since taking office, the interim administration has prioritised efforts to recover funds siphoned off to foreign countries.

Governor Mansur and several advisors have talked about efforts to retrieve these illicit funds.

Yunus has also sought help from the United Kingdom, the World Bank, and the European Union to recover these stolen assets.

A high-level inter-agency task force has been restructured under the governor's leadership.

The goal of the task force is to bring back assets that were smuggled out of the country and focus on asset management.

QUESTIONS RAISED OVER BFIU’S ACTIVITIES

The BFIU continued operating as a unit under the Bangladesh Bank even when the Awami League formed the government after the 2008 general election.

However, to comply with international pressure and requirements, the unit was made an independent body in 2012.

Despite this, since its establishment, the central bank has continued to provide BFIU with staffing, funding, and infrastructure support.

Even after becoming independent under the new legal framework, BFIU's first chief executive officer, or CEO, was Razee, the then deputy governor of Bangladesh Bank.

He remained the head of the organisation even when it was under the central bank.

Razee served as the head of BFIU until September 2021, extending his tenure multiple times.

This meant he held the position for most of the Awami League's three terms in office.

Regarding the failure to prevent large-scale money laundering, the former BFIU chief told bdnews24.com: "We were under constant pressure, facing restrictions from political and higher authorities. They dictated what could or couldn't be pursued, limiting our actions."

Without revealing who the "higher-ups" were, he added: "We had weaknesses in our legal and policy frameworks. The policy was weak, and there were flaws in implementation. Taking advantage of those weaknesses and exerting influence, money laundering was happening, and we could understand that."

Razee continued, “As regulators, we needed capacity building. We needed support from bankers. At one point, many banks didn’t have the staff to handle this. Now, capacity building has improved.”

Following the change in government, no new head has been appointed to BFIU, and an executive director is currently overseeing its operations.

Despite submitting written questions to the spokesperson of the central bank, no response was received within a week regarding the BFIU’s failure to prevent money laundering.

There had been dissatisfaction with the BFIU’s performance even during the Sheikh Hasina regime.

On Aug 11, 2016, the issue of the agency's performance was discussed in a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Ministry of Finance.

Abdur Razzak, the then chairman of the committee, told bdnews24.com: “In 2013, Tk 9.96 billion was laundered. Over the last decade, an average of Tk 5 billion was siphoned off each year. Money was being funnelled out through over-invoicing and under-invoicing. So, what exactly is the Financial Intelligence Unit doing?”

“We are deeply frustrated by this matter. Money is being laundered in Canada’s Begum Para, and we are third in Malaysia’s My Second Home [MM2H] programme. Yet, not a single person has been identified, and not even one case has been brought forward.”

The former agriculture minister said, “In May 2015, 400-500 tonnes of rice worth 800-1000 dollars were imported, yet on paper the figure was shown as 400-500 dollars. These issues need to be investigated.”

RISING MONEY LAUNDERING LINKED TO LOAN STRUCTURING?

There are primarily two methods through which money is laundered. The first involves over-invoicing and under-invoicing in import-export transactions, typically carried out through banking channels.

All legitimate transactions between Bangladesh and the outside world occur through these banking channels.

The second method involves hundi, where transactions happen at an individual level without any legal documents.

To curb money laundering, there’s no shortage of laws and government initiatives.

Alongside the measures taken by Bangladesh Bank, there is also a National Coordination Committee to tackle money laundering and prevent financing for terrorism.

The committee consists of the governor, the head of the BFIU, heads of financial regulators, the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission, or ACC, and secretaries from different ministries.

The Money Laundering Prevention Act (Amendment), 2015 was enacted to curb this issue, followed by the Money Laundering Prevention Rules, 2019.

However, these measures often remain on paper while money continues to be laundered at large.

Former BFIU head Razee also links this to the weak structure and limitations of human resources within Bangladesh Bank’s loan restructuring and rescheduling policies.

“Bangladesh Bank repeatedly creates policies for rescheduling defaulted loans. What did defaulters do after not paying? How could they launder the money if they didn’t have it? The failure to recover the loans is also a cause of the money being laundered," he said.

Masud Biswas, the former head of the BFIU, also held bankers accountable for the rise in money laundering.

During a press conference at the central bank in February, he said: “Bankers are to blame for this. They are not performing their duties properly.”

When asked why incidents of money laundering were increasing, Masud said: “80 percent of money laundering is trade-based [foreign trade, such as imports and exports]. The banking sector is the most vulnerable for money laundering.”

He continued, “Money laundering is not decreasing because of us. The responsibility for loan classification lies with the banks; they are the ones who handle it. If they don’t do it, how can it be done? Bangladesh Bank cannot inspect everything all the time. In many branches, inspections only happen every three years.”

However, Selim RF Hussain, chairman of the Association of Bankers Bangladesh, or ABB, and managing director of BRAC Bank, accused central bank officials of being responsible for the banking sector's issues.

During a discussion organised by the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management, or BIBM, in Dhaka’s Mirpur on Wednesday, he said: “Central bank officials interfere with promotions, transfers, and hiring in commercial banks, often favouring their own preferred individuals.”

Bangladesh Bank provides the opportunity to restructure and reschedule non-performing loans to show them as regular.

In 2015, under special consideration, non-performing loans worth nearly Tk 120 billion from 15 industrial groups were rescheduled.

At that time, the central bank said this concession of rescheduling loans with a 2 percent payment would be granted only once, in order to protect the industrial sector at the request of businesspeople.

However, later on, the Bangladesh Bank was forced to extend the rescheduling opportunity to loans exceeding Tk 5 billion in default, most of which have now turned into non-performing loans again.

By rescheduling repeatedly, defaulted loans are not shown as non-performing, pushing the total defaulted loans figure to Tk 2.88 trillion by September.

Economists in the country and international bodies have always raised concerns over the central bank's figures on bad loans.

The white paper on the economy reveals that the actual amount of non-performing loans stands at Tk 6.75 trillion.

Economists believe that a large portion of these non-performing loans has been laundered. This observation is further strengthened by the recent comments of the energy advisor.

Two major industrial groups, Beximco and S Alam, have borrowed massive amounts from the country's banking sector, with a large portion of these loans now on the verge of default.

During a seminar on Nov 30 organised by the Economic Reporters Forum, or ERF, Energy Advisor Fouzul Kabir Khan revealed that both companies have no money in their bank accounts.

“They can't even pay salaries, and their entire balance sheet is empty,” he added.

Beximco Group alone owes over Tk 270 billion to Janata Bank, and more than Tk 360 billion in total, including loans from other banks and bonds.

S Alam Group has taken loans worth Tk 800 billion from Islami Bank Bangladesh PLC, along with loans from other Shariah-based banks and National Bank.

When asked about the risk of loan defaults in the current situation, Ashish Kumar Nath, deputy general manager of S Alam Group’s Chittagong office, told bdnews24.com: “We are working to restore normal operations for all companies, including those dealing in consumer goods. However, some companies still have inactive bank accounts.”

“S Alam Group also participated in a meeting with the commerce advisor, where we requested support from the government," he added. "We also emphasised the need for administrative assistance to revive the businesses and repay the bank loans.”

ARE OFFICIALS ASLO INVOLVED?

Police’s Criminal Investigation Department, or CID, is investigating former BFUI head Masud over money laundering charges.

He resigned in August amid pressure after the fall of the Awami League government.

TIB boss Iftekharuzzaman said, “A huge amount of money has been laundered from the country, and both the central bank and BFUI have been complicit; they know everything.”

Razee argues that political and economic pressure prevented the complete prevention of money laundering.

Iftekharuzzaman believes that officials in these institutions also benefited from the crime, saying: "The recent investigations into Masud Biswas highlight that he too is being investigated for money laundering."

He added, "Just as the launderers have gained, so have the officials of the supporting agencies, who helped these criminals for personal gain."

“Pressure is always there, and it will remain.”

However, Iftekharuzzaman emphasised that not all officials were involved in the wrongdoing.

“There are honest and courageous officials,” he said, adding: “If necessary, their legal protection can be enhanced. However, those officials who benefited from facilitating money laundering must be held accountable and punished. This is achievable under the current government, and it would serve as a precedent for the future.”

When trying to get a response from Masud about his role in anti-money laundering actions during his tenure, no reply was received.

[Writing in English by Sheikh Fariha Bristy]



Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Dias injury latest blow in Manchester City's calamitous run

Defender Akanji has returned to training after injury, boosting Guardiola's squad

Football - Premier League - Manchester City v Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - Dec 15, 2024 Manchester United's Rasmus Hojlund in action with Manchester City's Ruben Dias Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff/File Photo

Manchester City will be without defender Ruben Dias for three to four weeks with a muscle injury, manager Pep Guardiola said on Friday, another blow for the reeling champions whose hopes of hanging on to the Premier League title are dwindling.

City travel to Aston Villa on Saturday hoping to right the ship amid the worst run of results in Guardiola's managerial career that has them languishing fifth in the league table. They also have just one victory to show for their last 11 games across all competitions.

Dias was injured in City's calamitous 2-1 derby loss to Manchester United on Sunday.

"It was a muscular injury, (after) 75 minutes against Manchester United he felt something. He is so strong and he stayed on the pitch and now he is injured," Guardiola told reporters on Friday.

Fellow defender Manuel Akanji, however, returned to training this week after suffering an injury early this month, "which is good for us," Guardiola said.

City lost to United in spectacular fashion last weekend, leading in the 88th minute before their cross-town rivals scored two goals in less than two minutes.

Guardiola looked disconsolate after, and pointed the finger squarely at himself for the shocking run, telling reporters during a long and heartfelt post-game press conference that "I am not good enough."

His mood had improved by Friday.

"I just finished a game where we were close to winning and we lost. For the sequences that happened I was not happy," Guardiola said. "I tried to be honest with myself here right now in six or seven days ago, (but) if you fall down six times you have to stand up seven.

"I am fine. I am a normal person with feelings like all of us. When a situation is going well we are better and when it is not going well professionally we are more (focused) on what we have to do."

Just two points and two places behind Guardiola's team in the league table, Aston Villa will climb over City with a victory on Saturday at Villa Park.

Unai Emery's team have also had significantly more success than City in their Champions League campaign, where they are fifth in the standings with two games left in the league phase while City are languishing in 22nd.

"I'm not surprised. Top, excellent manager. (They had good success) qualifying for the Champions League and the results in the Champions League they speak for themselves," Guardiola said. "They are handling it well because when I have been in many clubs handling both competitions, they have done really well."

City lost 1-0 at Villa Park just over a year ago before rebounding to thrash Emery's side 4-1 in early-April. Guardiola said, however, there was little he could glean from those games.

"Why do you have to compare what happened?" the Spaniard said. "The past is the past, this is a new moment, you have to deal with it."



Title: Pakistan outplay South Africa to earn 81-run ODI win at Newlands

South Africa's batters faltered as Pakistan claimed regular wickets

Cricket - T20 World Cup - Semi Final - South Africa v Afghanistan - Brian Lara Stadium, Tarouba, Trinidad and Tobago - Jun 26, 2024 South Africa's Anrich Nortje in action REUTERS/Ash Allen/File Photo

Shaheen Shah Afridi produced a spell of high-quality seam bowling as Pakistan claimed their One-Day International series against South Africa with a game to spare following a comprehensive 81-run victory at Newlands on Thursday.

Pakistan have an unassailable 2-0 lead ahead of the third and final fixture in Johannesburg on Sunday.

South Africa surprisingly sent the visitors into bat on a ground where it is known to be difficult to chase under lights, and Pakistan posted an above-par 329 all out.

Heinrich Klaasen provided the only real resistance for South Africa with an excellent 97 from 74 balls but was the last man out as they were dismissed for 248 in 43.1 overs, having been outplayed in all facets of the game.

Captain Mohammad Rizwan scored 80 from 82 balls to anchor the Pakistan innings, but the impetus for their total came from a superb 63 from 32 deliveries by Kamran Ghulam.

Babar Azam provided 73 in 95 deliveries with the visitors profiting from some sloppy South African fielding as they dropped numerous catches and were not accurate enough with the ball.

Debutant fast bowler Kwena Maphaka, 18, returned figures of 4-72 in his 10 overs, the pick of a disappointing bowling effort from South Africa.

Several of the home side’s batters got starts but Pakistan picked up wickets at regular intervals and Klaasen ran out of partners in the chase.

Afridi showed superb control and recorded figures of 4-47 as he ripped through the South African middle order, removing the dangerous David Miller for 29 to take the game away from the home side.



Title: Barcelona unhappy with recent run but will fight to the end, says Flick

They lead LaLiga with 38 points, ahead of Atletico and Real

Football - Champions League - Borussia Dortmund v FC Barcelona - Signal Iduna Park, Dortmund, Germany - Dec 11, 2024 FC Barcelona coach Hansi Flick reacts REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay

Barcelona will battle until the end to win titles, according to head coach Hansi Flick, who said he was unhappy with their current situation as they look to avoid a third consecutive home defeat in LaLiga when they host Atletico Madrid on Saturday.

After a superb start to the season which saw them win 14 of their first 16 matches across all competitions, Barcelona lost their way domestically with Sunday's 1-0 home defeat to 15th-placed Leganes leaving them with one victory in their last six league games.

But they remain top of the LaLiga table with 38 points, level with second-placed Atletico and one point ahead of Real Madrid in third, with both their title rivals having a game in hand.

To make matters worse for the Catalan side, Atletico have been in terrific form ahead of the highly-anticipated clash at the Lluis Companys Olympic Stadium, having won their last 11 matches in all competitions.

"What I can feel in the city and the supporters know what the team is like. We lost five important players. (Attacking midfielder) Dani Olmo and (forward) Pau Victor are the (new) signings. The team has improved and is focused," Flick told reporters on Friday.

"We are not happy with the situation, but we are going to fight until the end of the season. We want to win titles, but we know it won't be easy. But we want to win, that's what we want to do tomorrow."

The German said there will be little room for error if they are to win against Atletico, but they were ready for the occasion.

"It's the end of the year. It's a great game. It's one of the best rivals. But today is Dec. 20 and we're first in LaLiga and second in the Champions League. We are not bad. We lost some points against Las Palmas (2-1 loss) and Leganes, we have to recover them," Flick added.

"Tomorrow is another game. We have a young team and we have to fight and improve. We want to achieve great things. But we know it won't be easy. We have to start fighting tomorrow. We are playing against great teams."

Barcelona have suffered a blow with winger Lamine Yamal suffering an ankle injury during their loss against Leganes. The 17-year-old Spain international is expected to be out for three to four weeks.

"We have to accept that he is injured and won't be able to play," Flick said.



Title: U-19 Women's Asia Cup: Bangladesh breeze past Nepal to set up final clash with India

The Tigresses beat Nepal by 9 wickets in Kuala Lumpur

Bangladesh have trounced Nepal by 9 wickets to secure a berth in the final of the Under-19 Women’s Asia Cup.

On Friday, the young Tigresses bounced back in style from their earlier loss to India in the Super Four stage opener in Kuala Lumpur.

In a rain-curtailed 11-over game, Nepal managed just 54 runs, which Bangladesh chased down comfortably in 9.5 overs.

Bangladesh will face India in the final on Sunday at the same venue.

After winning the toss, Bangladesh opted to field and immediately put pressure on Nepal. A combination of tight bowling and poor running between the wickets left Nepal struggling. Three of their first four wickets were run-outs within the first six overs.

Nepal's highest partnership was a 19-run stand between captain Puja Mahato and Sabitri Dhami for the second wicket. Dhami, the only batter to reach double figures, scored 11 off 12 balls.

Farjana Easmin, Anisa Akter, Fahomida Choya, and Habiba Islam chipped in with a wicket apiece for Bangladesh.

Chasing a modest target, openers Fahomida and Mosammat Eva got the Tigresses off to a flying start. Fahmida struck boundaries in consecutive overs, while Eva hit the only six of the match in the fifth over.

The opening partnership of 46 runs ended in the eighth over when Eva was bowled by Kusum Godar for 18 off 21 balls. However, Fahomida guided her team across the finish line with an unbeaten 26 off 32 balls, alongside Sumaiya Akhter, who added 10 runs off six balls.

Fahomida was named Player of the Match for her all-round performance.

Match Summary:

Nepal U-19: 54/8 in 11 overs (Dhami 11, Mahato 9; Farzana 1/13, Anisa 1/10, Fahomida 1/14, Habiba 1/11)

Bangladesh U-19: 58/1 in 9.5 overs (Fahomida 26*, Eva 18, Sumaiya 10*)

Result: Bangladesh won by 9 wickets.

Player of the Match: Fahomida Choya



Title: Bangladesh crush West Indies by 80 runs to complete T20 series sweep

After setting a daunting target of 190, the visitors bundle out the Caribbean side for 109 runs to win the third T20

Bangladesh have romped to a resounding 80-run win in the third and final T20 match against the West Indies to sweep the series 3-0. This is Bangladesh's biggest win in T20Is against the Caribbean side.

The Tigers had only achieved whitewashes in T20 series twice before: against England at home last year and against Ireland away in 2012.

However, this victory carries extra significance. Coming on the heels of a disappointing ODI series whitewash, and achieved without key players like regular captain Najmul Hossain Shanto, Towhid Hridoy, and Mustafizur Rahman, the triumph marks a memorable end to a challenging year for Bangladesh cricket.

The match in St Vincent on Friday morning Bangladesh time saw Parvez Hossain Emon returning to the side and giving the team a solid start with the bat. Jaker Ali then stole the show with a blistering knock, helping the visitors post a commanding total of 189 runs in their 20 overs.

In reply, the West Indies collapsed for just 109 runs to hand a remarkable victory to Bangladesh.

Jaker lit up the match with a breathtaking 72* off just 41 balls, smashing six sixes and displaying incredible skill, power, and match awareness. Earlier in the tour, he impressed with two brilliant Test innings and solid ODI performances. He capped off the T20 series by dismantling the West Indies bowlers with ease.

Once Jaker set the tone, the Bangladeshi bowlers completed the job with minimal fuss. Rishad Hossain, who has had an outstanding year, posted his career-best figures of 3 wickets for 21 runs. Taskin Ahmed, Mahedi Hasan, and Hasan Mahmud also bowled with precision and rhythm to put the squeeze on one of the most dangerous teams in cricket's shortest format.

DOMINANT START

After winning toss and electing to bat, Bangladesh dominated from the get-go in Kingstown. Parvez, stepping in for the injured Soumya Sarkar, began with a classy boundary and soon showcased his power hitting. Alongside skipper Litton Das, he put up a brisk opening stand of 40 runs in the first four overs.

However, Litton’s promising start, highlighted by three elegant boundaries, ended in disappointment as he was dismissed for a run-a-ball 13. Parvez followed soon after, falling for a quickfire 39 off 20 balls, including four boundaries and two sixes.

The momentum slowed after Tanzid Hasan’s brief cameo, where he struck a six before being dismissed. The Tigers managed only 36 runs between the fifth and 10th overs. Mehidy Hasan Miraz attempted to hit the accelerator, scoring a handy 29 off 22 balls, but his innings ended prematurely.

Then came Jaker's moment. Starting cautiously with just 10 runs off 13 balls, he switched gears in the 14th over with a slog-swept six off Gudakesh Motie. Surviving a near run-out, Jaker took complete control, dominating the West Indies bowlers. His range of shots cleared every part of the ground—long-on, mid-wicket, and extra cover.

Despite quick dismissals of Shamim Hossain (2) and Mahedi (0), Jaker continued the onslaught. In the last five overs, he smashed five sixes and two boundaries, including a colossal 95-metre six off Obed McCoy. He brought up his fifty in style with a boundary off Alzarri Joseph and finished the innings by hammering three sixes in a 25-run final over as Bangladesh ended with a commanding total of 189 for 6.

CLINICAL BOWLING DISPLAY

Defending the target, Bangladesh struck early. Taskin bowled an outswinger followed by an inswinger to trap Brandon King leg-before for a duck in the first over.

Mahedi then dismissed debutant Justin Greaves in the second over. While Johnson Charles and Nicholas Pooran counterattacked briefly, adding 34 runs in three overs, Bangladesh hit back quickly. Mahedi dismissed Pooran (15 off 10) for the third time in the series, and Hasan Mahmud kept Roston Chase scoreless. Rishad’s brilliant direct hit ran out Charles (18 off 23), and soon after, he dismissed Rovman Powell with the ball.

The West Indies collapsed, losing four wickets for just 14 runs, leaving them teetering at 60/6. Romario Shepherd tried to rescue his side with a spirited 33 off 27 balls, but his efforts only helped the hosts cross 100 as Bangladesh cruised to a comprehensive victory.

Brief Score:

Bangladesh: 189/7 in 20 overs (Litton 14, Parvez 39, Tanzid 9, Miraz 29, Jaker 72* (41 balls, 6 sixes), Shamim 2, Mahedi 0, Tanzim 17, Rishad 0*; Shepherd 4-0-30-2, Joseph 4-0-59-1, Chase 4-0-15-1, Motie 3-0-30-1)

West Indies: 109 in 16.4 overs (King 0, Charles 23, Greaves 6, Pooran 15, Chase 0, Powell 2, Shepherd 33, Akeal 31, Motie 12, Joseph 1, McCoy 5, Seales 4*; Rishad 4-0-21-3, Taskin 3.4-0-30-2, Mahedi 3-0-13-2, Hasan 3-0-9-1, Tanzim 3-0-31-1)

Result: Bangladesh won by 80 runs

Series result: Bangladesh won the 3-match series 3-0

Player of the Match: Jaker Ali

Player of the Series: Mahedi Hasan



Title: Argentina still best in the world, says FIFA

They keep top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year

Copa America 2024 - Final - Argentina v Colombia - Hard Rock Stadium, Miami, Florida, United States - Jul 15, 2024 Argentina's Lionel Messi lifts the trophy as he celebrates with teammates after winning Copa America 2024 REUTERS/Agustin Marcarian

Reigning world champions Argentina have kept top spot in the final FIFA men's world ranking of 2024 for a second consecutive year, with no changes in the top 10 of the latest list published on Thursday.

Lionel Scaloni's Argentina, who were crowned Copa America champions for a record 16th time after they beat Colombia in July, continue to lead the way ahead of second-placed France and Euro 2024 winners Spain in third.

Euro runners-up England, Brazil, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and Germany were next in the top 10.

Angola were the biggest mover of the year, climbing 32 places to finish 85th.



