Category: cricket

Title: Root back in England ODI squad for India tour, Champions Trophy

The country's cricket board names players for a white-ball tour of India and the Champions Trophy

Joe Root returned to England's one-day international squad for the first time since their ill-fated World Cup title defence in November 2023, as the country's cricket board named players on Sunday for a white-ball tour of India and the Champions Trophy.

The England and Wales Cricket Board added that Ben Stokes was not considered for selection as the Test skipper continues to be assessed following a left hamstring injury sustained in their big defeat by New Zealand in the third test this month.

The talismanic all-rounder had come out of retirement in the 50-overs format to play in last year's World Cup, where England finished a dismal seventh out of 10 teams.

England play five Twenty20 internationals and three ODIs against India starting on Jan. 22 before heading to Pakistan for the Champions Trophy in February and March.

Pace bowler Mark Wood returned to both squads after missing the tours of Pakistan and New Zealand with an elbow injury, but there was no spot for Sam Curran or Reece Topley.

Rising batsman Jacob Bethell was also rewarded for his good form in New Zealand.

Leg-spinner Rehan Ahmed joined the T20 unit, while veteran Root was named only for the ODIs.

The Jos Buttler-led squads will depart on Jan. 17 with head coach Brendon McCullum, who was put in charge of the limited-overs sides in September.

New Zealander McCullum had previously taken the reins of the Test team in May 2022 and quickly oversaw a huge improvement, introducing an ultra-aggressive style that came to be known as "Bazball".

England squads:

ODIs (India tour and ICC Champions Trophy): Jos Buttler (captain), Jofra Archer, Gus Atkinson, Jacob Bethell, Harry Brook, Brydon Carse, Ben Duckett, Jamie Overton, Jamie Smith, Liam Livingstone, Adil Rashid, Joe Root, Saqib Mahmood, Phil Salt, Mark Wood.

T20s (India tour): Jos Buttler (captain), Rehan Ahmed, Jofra Archer, Gus Atkinson, Jacob Bethell, Harry Brook, Brydon Carse, Ben Duckett, Jamie Overton, Jamie Smith, Liam Livingstone, Adil Rashid, Saqib Mahmood, Phil Salt, Mark Wood.



Title: Shakib and Tamim can play in Champions Trophy if they don’t retire, says BCB chief Faruque

The next edition of the ICC tournament is scheduled to take place in February next year under the hybrid model

The matter of Shakib Al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal staging a comeback to the national team is cloaked in mystery, with no clear message coming from the Bangladesh Cricket Board, or BCB, about the duo's possible return.

However, since neither of them has retired, BCB President Faruque Ahmed believes there is a good chance they could participate in the upcoming Champions Trophy.

The next edition of the Champions Trophy is scheduled to take place in February next year under the hybrid model. With less than two months remaining, it is still uncertain whether these two experienced cricketers will participate in the global event.

Shakib has been out of the squad since the end of the last India Test series in September this year. Tamim has not played international cricket for about 15 months. The former captain last played in the Bangladesh colours in September last year against New Zealand.

Chief Selector Gazi Ashraf Hossain could not be specific when asked about the return of the duo to the fold.

“The Shakib issue is a bit different. This is nothing new. He couldn’t play in the West Indies series recently as he was not in the right frame of mind to travel. Now, Shakib has to clarify whether he will play in the BPL. Honestly, I can’t explain his condition as I have no information on him,” said Faruque.

The chief selector has already said there is no separate policy at the moment in Tamim’s case. The selectors will discuss if the cricketers who have not retired yet are needed, Faruque added.

Shakib announced his retirement from T20 cricket before the second Test during India tour. He also stated that he wished to retire from Tests after playing the Mirpur Test against South Africa.

The all-rounder, also a former member of parliament from the deposed Awami League, stopped at Dubai on his way back to the country. He was discouraged from returning to Bangladesh considering the security concern amid political instability in the country at that time. Since then, his international career has been at a standstill.

Shakib is participating in various franchise tournaments abroad currently. He played for Bangla Tigers in the Abu Dhabi T10 League and represented Galle Marvels in the Lanka T10 League.



Title: India's Jadeja seeks more runs from top order to relieve pressure

The all-rounder helped India avoid the follow-on with a crucial 77 lower down the order

Indian all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja has called for a stronger batting display from the heavyweights atop the order to ease the pressure on the team when they take on Australia in the fourth Test starting in Melbourne next week.

The tourists eked out a draw in the rain-interrupted third game in Brisbane despite another top order failure, leaving the five-match series locked at 1-1 before the highly anticipated Boxing Day clash.

Jadeja helped India avoid the follow-on with a crucial 77 lower down the order in the first innings but said it was time for the specialists to fire.

"When you play outside India, especially in Australia or South Africa, it's important for the top order to make runs," Jadeja told reporters at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.

"If the top order doesn't make runs or give us a good start, then definitely there is more pressure and responsibility on the lower and middle order. Hopefully in this match they do well.

"As a team, we need them to perform. If everyone contributes in the batting unit, the team will do well."

Jadeja said India were pleased to be level with Australia at this stage with matches to come in Melbourne and Sydney, as they look to win a third successive series Down Under.

"The next two matches will be interesting," he added.

"If we win one match we retain the series, we obviously won the last two series here. It's a good opportunity. This will be a crucial match."

Jadeja said he and India will miss the experience of spin spearhead Ravichandran Ashwin, who retired after the previous game, but said there is no shortage of talent in the country.

"Hopefully we'll get another good bowler and all-rounder ... we have to move on," Jadeja said.

"It's a good opportunity now for any youngster who comes into the team to prove themselves at this level."



Title: Australia dump McSweeney, bring in teen Konstas for Boxing Day Test

The 19-year-old scored a debut half-century in Big Bash League, making 56 from 27 balls

Cricket - First Test - Australia v India - Optus Stadium, Perth, Australia - Nov 22, 2024 Test debutant Australia's Nathan McSweeney celebrates with teammates after taking a catch to dismiss India's Yashasvi Jaiswal off the bowling of Australia's Mitchell Starc Dean Lewins/AAP Image via REUTERS

Australia have dumped Nathan McSweeney after three Tests and rushed uncapped teenager Sam Konstas into the squad for the Boxing Day Test against India in the search for more runs from the top order.

Makeshift opener McSweeney scored 72 runs from 212 deliveries at an average of 14.4 over six innings as Australia were thrashed in the series opener, won handsomely in the second Test and drew the third in Brisbane this week.

Konstas has been scoring runs for fun in first class cricket this season, including a century against an Indian selection in the tour match in Canberra.

The 19-year-old also became the youngest player to score a half-century in the Big Bash League this week on his debut in Australia's domestic T20 competition, making 56 from 27 balls for Sydney Thunder.

"Sam gets a call up to the Test squad for the first time. His style of batting offers a point of difference and we look forward to watching his game develop further," said head selector George Bailey.

"We remain confident Nathan has the ability and temperament to succeed at Test level in the future. It was a difficult decision to leave him out."

Experienced wicketkeeper-batsman Josh Inglis and all-rounder Beau Webster, both uncapped, also remain in the squad as options to replace McSweeney in the opening partnership with Usman Khawaja if Australia decide not to field Konstas.

McSweeney was not the only top order batter struggling for runs in the series with Khawaja averaging 12.6 and number three Marnus Labuschagne 16.40 despite a half-century in the second Test in Adelaide.

"It has clearly been a challenge at the top of the order for batters throughout the series and we want to provide the option of a different line up for the next two matches," Bailey added.

Jhye Richardson and Sean Abbott are in the squad as cover for Josh Hazlewood but Scott Boland is expected to take the injured fast bowler's place in the pace attack in the fourth Test, as he did in the second.

"In the absence of Josh Hazlewood, Jhye provides further options in the fast bowling space," Bailey said. "It has been pleasing to see his successful return throughout the early part of the domestic summer."

The fourth Test starts at Melbourne Cricket Ground on Dec 26 with the fifth and final match taking place in Sydney from Jan 3.

Australia squad: Pat Cummins (captain), Usman Khawaja, Sam Konstas, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Travis Head, Alex Carey, Mitchell Marsh, Beau Webster, Josh Inglis, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Lyon, Scott Boland, Sean Abbott, Jhye Richardson.



Title: U-19 Women's Asia Cup: Bangladesh breeze past Nepal to set up final clash with India

The Tigresses beat Nepal by 9 wickets in Kuala Lumpur

Bangladesh have trounced Nepal by 9 wickets to secure a berth in the final of the Under-19 Women’s Asia Cup.

On Friday, the young Tigresses bounced back in style from their earlier loss to India in the Super Four stage opener in Kuala Lumpur.

In a rain-curtailed 11-over game, Nepal managed just 54 runs, which Bangladesh chased down comfortably in 9.5 overs.

Bangladesh will face India in the final on Sunday at the same venue.

After winning the toss, Bangladesh opted to field and immediately put pressure on Nepal. A combination of tight bowling and poor running between the wickets left Nepal struggling. Three of their first four wickets were run-outs within the first six overs.

Nepal's highest partnership was a 19-run stand between captain Puja Mahato and Sabitri Dhami for the second wicket. Dhami, the only batter to reach double figures, scored 11 off 12 balls.

Farjana Easmin, Anisa Akter, Fahomida Choya, and Habiba Islam chipped in with a wicket apiece for Bangladesh.

Chasing a modest target, openers Fahomida and Mosammat Eva got the Tigresses off to a flying start. Fahmida struck boundaries in consecutive overs, while Eva hit the only six of the match in the fifth over.

The opening partnership of 46 runs ended in the eighth over when Eva was bowled by Kusum Godar for 18 off 21 balls. However, Fahomida guided her team across the finish line with an unbeaten 26 off 32 balls, alongside Sumaiya Akhter, who added 10 runs off six balls.

Fahomida was named Player of the Match for her all-round performance.

Match Summary:

Nepal U-19: 54/8 in 11 overs (Dhami 11, Mahato 9; Farzana 1/13, Anisa 1/10, Fahomida 1/14, Habiba 1/11)

Bangladesh U-19: 58/1 in 9.5 overs (Fahomida 26*, Eva 18, Sumaiya 10*)

Result: Bangladesh won by 9 wickets.

Player of the Match: Fahomida Choya



Title: Bangladesh crush West Indies by 80 runs to complete T20 series sweep

After setting a daunting target of 190, the visitors bundle out the Caribbean side for 109 runs to win the third T20

Bangladesh have romped to a resounding 80-run win in the third and final T20 match against the West Indies to sweep the series 3-0. This is Bangladesh's biggest win in T20Is against the Caribbean side.

The Tigers had only achieved whitewashes in T20 series twice before: against England at home last year and against Ireland away in 2012.

However, this victory carries extra significance. Coming on the heels of a disappointing ODI series whitewash, and achieved without key players like regular captain Najmul Hossain Shanto, Towhid Hridoy, and Mustafizur Rahman, the triumph marks a memorable end to a challenging year for Bangladesh cricket.

The match in St Vincent on Friday morning Bangladesh time saw Parvez Hossain Emon returning to the side and giving the team a solid start with the bat. Jaker Ali then stole the show with a blistering knock, helping the visitors post a commanding total of 189 runs in their 20 overs.

In reply, the West Indies collapsed for just 109 runs to hand a remarkable victory to Bangladesh.

Jaker lit up the match with a breathtaking 72* off just 41 balls, smashing six sixes and displaying incredible skill, power, and match awareness. Earlier in the tour, he impressed with two brilliant Test innings and solid ODI performances. He capped off the T20 series by dismantling the West Indies bowlers with ease.

Once Jaker set the tone, the Bangladeshi bowlers completed the job with minimal fuss. Rishad Hossain, who has had an outstanding year, posted his career-best figures of 3 wickets for 21 runs. Taskin Ahmed, Mahedi Hasan, and Hasan Mahmud also bowled with precision and rhythm to put the squeeze on one of the most dangerous teams in cricket's shortest format.

DOMINANT START

After winning toss and electing to bat, Bangladesh dominated from the get-go in Kingstown. Parvez, stepping in for the injured Soumya Sarkar, began with a classy boundary and soon showcased his power hitting. Alongside skipper Litton Das, he put up a brisk opening stand of 40 runs in the first four overs.

However, Litton’s promising start, highlighted by three elegant boundaries, ended in disappointment as he was dismissed for a run-a-ball 13. Parvez followed soon after, falling for a quickfire 39 off 20 balls, including four boundaries and two sixes.

The momentum slowed after Tanzid Hasan’s brief cameo, where he struck a six before being dismissed. The Tigers managed only 36 runs between the fifth and 10th overs. Mehidy Hasan Miraz attempted to hit the accelerator, scoring a handy 29 off 22 balls, but his innings ended prematurely.

Then came Jaker's moment. Starting cautiously with just 10 runs off 13 balls, he switched gears in the 14th over with a slog-swept six off Gudakesh Motie. Surviving a near run-out, Jaker took complete control, dominating the West Indies bowlers. His range of shots cleared every part of the ground—long-on, mid-wicket, and extra cover.

Despite quick dismissals of Shamim Hossain (2) and Mahedi (0), Jaker continued the onslaught. In the last five overs, he smashed five sixes and two boundaries, including a colossal 95-metre six off Obed McCoy. He brought up his fifty in style with a boundary off Alzarri Joseph and finished the innings by hammering three sixes in a 25-run final over as Bangladesh ended with a commanding total of 189 for 6.

CLINICAL BOWLING DISPLAY

Defending the target, Bangladesh struck early. Taskin bowled an outswinger followed by an inswinger to trap Brandon King leg-before for a duck in the first over.

Mahedi then dismissed debutant Justin Greaves in the second over. While Johnson Charles and Nicholas Pooran counterattacked briefly, adding 34 runs in three overs, Bangladesh hit back quickly. Mahedi dismissed Pooran (15 off 10) for the third time in the series, and Hasan Mahmud kept Roston Chase scoreless. Rishad’s brilliant direct hit ran out Charles (18 off 23), and soon after, he dismissed Rovman Powell with the ball.

The West Indies collapsed, losing four wickets for just 14 runs, leaving them teetering at 60/6. Romario Shepherd tried to rescue his side with a spirited 33 off 27 balls, but his efforts only helped the hosts cross 100 as Bangladesh cruised to a comprehensive victory.

Brief Score:

Bangladesh: 189/7 in 20 overs (Litton 14, Parvez 39, Tanzid 9, Miraz 29, Jaker 72* (41 balls, 6 sixes), Shamim 2, Mahedi 0, Tanzim 17, Rishad 0*; Shepherd 4-0-30-2, Joseph 4-0-59-1, Chase 4-0-15-1, Motie 3-0-30-1)

West Indies: 109 in 16.4 overs (King 0, Charles 23, Greaves 6, Pooran 15, Chase 0, Powell 2, Shepherd 33, Akeal 31, Motie 12, Joseph 1, McCoy 5, Seales 4*; Rishad 4-0-21-3, Taskin 3.4-0-30-2, Mahedi 3-0-13-2, Hasan 3-0-9-1, Tanzim 3-0-31-1)

Result: Bangladesh won by 80 runs

Series result: Bangladesh won the 3-match series 3-0

Player of the Match: Jaker Ali

Player of the Series: Mahedi Hasan



Title: Afghanistan enjoy record ODI win helped by Atal ton against Zimbabwe

They have scored 286-6, led by Atal's 104 and Malik's 84

Afghanistan recorded their biggest One-Day International victory with a 232-run win against hosts Zimbabwe after opener Sediqullah Atal's maiden ODI century and figures of 3-9 by off-spinner AM Ghazanfar at the Harare Sports Club on Thursday.

After being sent in to bat, Afghanistan amassed 286 for six in their 50 overs, led by Atal’s 104 from 128 balls as part of an opening stand of 191 with Abdul Malik (84 from 101 balls).

Zimbabwe struggled from the start of their reply and were bowled out for 54, the joint lowest Afghanistan have dismissed a side for in ODI cricket. It matches the score they skittled Zimbabwe for at the same venue in 2017.

Afghanistan have a 1-0 lead after two matches in the three-game series with the first fixture rained out. The third and final game is at the Harare Sports Club on Saturday.



Title: India hope misfiring top order will come good after Gabba jailbreak

They snatched a draw in the rain-blighted third Test in Brisbane

First Test - Australia v India - Optus Stadium, Perth, Australia - Nov 23, 2024 India's Yashasvi Jaiswal in action Dean Lewins/AAP Image via REUTERS

A jailbreak at the Gabba has brought a palpable sense of relief in the India camp, while giving rise to hope their misfiring top order will finally come good in more batting-friendly conditions in the final two Tests against Australia.

India snatched a draw in the rain-blighted third Test in Brisbane despite yet another top order debacle that left them reeling at 74-5 in reply to Australia's 445.

Number seven batter Ravindra Jadeja inspired a spirited rearguard action and India's final pair of Akash Deep and Jasprit Bumrah combined in a 47-run partnership to stave off follow-on.

While India managed to keep the five-Test series level at 1-1 heading into the Boxing day test in Melbourne, the fragility of their top order remains a major concern for the tourists.

In five completed innings so far in the series, only once have India managed an opening stand of more than 12 runs.

The lone exception came in the second innings of the series opener in Perth where Yashasvi Jaiswal and KL Rahul forged a 201-run partnership to set up their comprehensive victory.

The poor starts meant on three out of those five occasions, India posted sub-200 scores, including twice in the day-night second Test in Adelaide, which Australia won by 10 wickets.

There is a growing feeling in the camp, though, that the worst is behind them and that batting will be easier in the last two tests in Melbourne and Sydney.

"Whatever happened today, it gave us confidence ahead of Melbourne," India captain Rohit Sharma told reporters on Wednesday.

"We're aware we have to start from scratch, conditions are different there and the ball may not move around so much there like it did here."

Rohit's own struggle with form is symptomatic of the greater malaise afflicting the Indian top order.

The 37-year-old, who missed the opening Test to be with his newborn son in Mumbai, has just one fifty in his last 13 test innings.

The opener has moved down to the middle order in his bid to regain form but managed a highest score of 10 in three innings.

"I have not batted well, there is no harm in accepting that," Rohit said, denying he was feeling under pressure.

"As long as my mind, my body and my feet are moving well, I'm pretty happy with how things are panning out for me."

India need to win both matches to make the World Test Championship (WTC) final for the third time in a row without having to rely on other results.

Champions Australia need two wins and a draw in their next four tests, which include two in Sri Lanka, to be sure of qualification.



Title: Maharaj out of Pakistan ODIs, doubt for crucial Test series

South Africa are top of the World Test Championship table and need victory in one of their two remaining matches against Pakistan

First choice spinner Keshav Maharaj has been ruled out of the remaining two One-Day Internationals against Pakistan and is a doubt for the crucial two-Test home series against the sub-continent side that starts on Dec 26.

Maharaj has a left adductor strain and will miss the 50-over fixtures in Cape Town on Thursday and Johannesburg on Sunday, but of much greater concern will be the 34-year-old’s availability for the Test series.

South Africa are top of the World Test Championship table and need victory in one of their two remaining matches against Pakistan to guarantee a place at the Lord’s final in June next year.

Should Maharaj be unavailable, the only specialist spinner in the Test squad is the less experienced Senuran Muthusamy. Bjorn Fortuin has been named as his replacement for the final two ODIs.



Title: India-Pakistan matches at ICC events to be held at neutral venues

Due to soured relations, India have not visited Pakistan since 2008 and the rivals play each other only at multi-team events

Matches between politically-estranged rivals India and Pakistan at ICC events that either nation is due to host will be played at neutral venues, the International Cricket Council said on Thursday ending uncertainty over next year's Champions Trophy.

The arrangement will apply to two major ICC events next year - the men's Champions Trophy in Pakistan and the women's ODI World Cup in India.

It will also be in place for the men's T20 World Cup in 2026, which India will co-host alongside Sri Lanka, and the women's T20 World Cup in 2028 in Pakistan, the ICC said.

"The match schedule for the men's Champions Trophy 2025 will be confirmed in the coming days," the ICC said in a statement.

Due to soured relations, India have not visited Pakistan since 2008 and the rivals play each other only at multi-team events.

Pakistan visited India for the 50-overs World Cup last year but the Indian cricket board (BCCI) has decided not to send its team to Pakistan for the Champions Trophy next year, citing government advice.

Pakistan also hosted the Asia Cup last year but winners India played all their matches in Sri Lanka under.

The Pakistan Cricket Board initially rejected the idea of adopting that "hybrid model" for the Champions Trophy before accepting it on condition that they would be allowed similar favours for ICC events in India.

A politically charged-up India v Pakistan contest is the most anticipated match in any ICC tournament, especially after the suspension of bilateral tours between the bitter cricket-mad neighbours.

PCB chairman Mohsin Naqvi is also Pakistan's Interior Minister, while Jay Shah, who was the BCCI secretary until he took over as ICC chairman earlier this month, is the son of India's Home Minister Amit Shah.



Title: Santner named New Zealand's white ball captain

The left-arm spinner will take charge of the team for the first time in a T20 series against Sri Lanka starting in late December

ICC Cricket World Cup 2023 - England v New Zealand - Narendra Modi Stadium, Ahmedabad, India - Oct 5, 2023 New Zealand's Mitch Santner celebrates after taking the wicket of England's Jonny Bairstow caught by Daryl Mitchell REUTERS/Amit Dave

Left-arm spinner Mitchell Santner was named as the successor to Kane Williamson as New Zealand captain in one-day internationals and Twenty20 cricket on Wednesday.

The 32-year-old, who has played 243 internationals and captained his country in 28 short format matches on a temporary basis, will take charge of the team for the first time in a T20 series against Sri Lanka starting in late December.

"It's obviously a huge honour and a privilege to be asked," said Santner, who was named Player of the Match as New Zealand thrashed England in the third test on Tuesday.

"When you're a young kid the dream was always to play for New Zealand but to have the opportunity to officially lead my country in two formats is special."

Williamson stepped down from the white ball captaincy after the T20 World Cup in the United States and Caribbean earlier this year, having handed the test captaincy over to Tim Southee in 2022.

Southee in turn passed it on to Tom Latham in October and coach Gary Stead said the appointment of Santner would allow the opening batsman to concentrate on that job.

"Tom's doing a great job as full-time test captain since taking over in October and we're keen to allow him to focus on that job which requires a considerable amount of time and energy," he said.

Santner said it was an exciting time to take over the short format teams with many of the generation that took New Zealand to the finals of the 2015 and 2019 ODI World Cups having retired or approaching retirement.

"There's obviously a little bit of a changing of the guard with some of our experienced players at the back end of their careers," he said.

"I think that's exciting for the remainder of the group and the young players to now take on the challenge and drive this team forward to further success."



Title: 'Not beholden to stats': Cummins defends Australia's batters

He says his batters fell quickly on Wednesday while chasing quick runs to allow a declaration that could set up a small chance of victory

Second Test - Australia v India - Adelaide Oval, Adelaide, Australia - Dec 7, 2024 Australia's Pat Cummins celebrates with Travis Head after taking the wicket of India's Rohit Sharma Dave Hunt/AAP Image via REUTERS

Australia captain Pat Cummins has leapt to the defence of his top order batsmen after they again struggled for runs in the drawn third Test against India in Brisbane.

Australia collapsed to 33 for five in their second innings at the Gabba on Wednesday, with the top four all dismissed for single-digit scores before Cummins declared at 79 for eight.

The new opening combination of Usman Khawaja and Nathan McSweeney has failed to build a partnership of more than 21 runs in the series, while number three Marnus Labuschagne is averaging 16.40 from his five innings, despite a half-century in the second Test in Adelaide.

Cummins said his batters fell quickly on Wednesday while chasing quick runs to allow a declaration that could set up a small chance of victory.

"We are not beholden to stats," Cummins told reporters.

"We know there are certain roles and easier times to bat and harder times to bat, just like bowlers.

"You are looking at the best seven batters as a unit to play the best you can."

The series is tied at 1-1 ahead of the fourth test in Melbourne starting Dec 26.

The top order's struggles have coincided with eye-catching scores by 19-year-old talent Sam Konstas, who scored a century against an Indian selection in the tour match in Canberra.

He also became the youngest player to score a half-century in the Big Bash League this week on debut in Australia's domestic T20 competition, making 56 from 27 balls for Sydney Thunder.

Pundits have called on selectors to blood Konstas in the test squad after he missed out on selection in favour of McSweeney, who has been retooled as an opener after playing largely at number three.

Cummins defended McSweeney's lean output while declining to comment on whether selectors would stick with him for the remaining matches in Melbourne and Sydney.

"I have been impressed with the way he has gone about it," said Cummins of McSweeney, who was caught behind for four on Wednesday after making nine in the first innings.

"Today for someone starting out his career he was selfless to go out and try and play his shots rather than preserve (his wicket) and get a score.

"He probably hasn't got the runs he would have liked but he has played important knocks that have set up a win in Adelaide and a good result here."



Title: Sammy appointed West Indies coach across all formats

The former captain has demonstrated exceptional leadership during his tenure with the white-ball teams

West Indies have appointed former captain Daren Sammy as coach across all three formats of the game, handing him control of the test team from next year in addition to the one-day international and Twenty20 sides.

The current Test coach, Andre Coley, will remain in charge for January's series against Pakistan before moving into a high-performance role, Cricket West Indies (CWI) said in a statement.

"Daren Sammy has demonstrated exceptional leadership during his tenure with the white-ball teams," said CWI President Kishore Shallow.

"His vision, dedication, and ability to inspire players make him the ideal candidate to lead across all formats. This appointment marks a bold and exciting step forward as we strive to elevate West Indies cricket to new heights."

Sammy, the first St Lucian to play international cricket, captained West Indies to T20 World Cup triumphs in 2012 and 2016 and took charge of the white-ball teams as coach in May 2023.

He will celebrate his 41st birthday on Friday.

West Indies are currently ranked fourth in the T20 world rankings, eighth in tests and 10th in one-day internationals.

The test team have endured a significant decline in fortunes since they were the most feared side in world cricket for a period from the late 1970s to the early 1990s.

The Caribbean islanders have won three of 15 tests since Coley took charge on an interim basis in December 2022, although that did include a notable victory over Australia in Brisbane earlier this year.

"We recognise and appreciate Andre's efforts during his tenure, and look forward to him serving West Indies cricket in other meaningful capacities," said the CWI's director of cricket Miles Bascombe.

"We are confident that there will be a seamless transition from Andre to Daren for the test (team), both are professionals who have worked productively in the past."



Title: Shakib and Tamim can play in Champions Trophy if they don’t retire, says BCB chief Faruque

The next edition of the ICC tournament is scheduled to take place in February next year under the hybrid model

The matter of Shakib Al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal staging a comeback to the national team is cloaked in mystery, with no clear message coming from the Bangladesh Cricket Board, or BCB, about the duo's possible return.

However, since neither of them has retired, BCB President Faruque Ahmed believes there is a good chance they could participate in the upcoming Champions Trophy.

The next edition of the Champions Trophy is scheduled to take place in February next year under the hybrid model. With less than two months remaining, it is still uncertain whether these two experienced cricketers will participate in the global event.

Shakib has been out of the squad since the end of the last India Test series in September this year. Tamim has not played international cricket for about 15 months. The former captain last played in the Bangladesh colours in September last year against New Zealand.

Chief Selector Gazi Ashraf Hossain could not be specific when asked about the return of the duo to the fold.

“The Shakib issue is a bit different. This is nothing new. He couldn’t play in the West Indies series recently as he was not in the right frame of mind to travel. Now, Shakib has to clarify whether he will play in the BPL. Honestly, I can’t explain his condition as I have no information on him,” said Faruque.

The chief selector has already said there is no separate policy at the moment in Tamim’s case. The selectors will discuss if the cricketers who have not retired yet are needed, Faruque added.

Shakib announced his retirement from T20 cricket before the second Test during India tour. He also stated that he wished to retire from Tests after playing the Mirpur Test against South Africa.

The all-rounder, also a former member of parliament from the deposed Awami League, stopped at Dubai on his way back to the country. He was discouraged from returning to Bangladesh considering the security concern amid political instability in the country at that time. Since then, his international career has been at a standstill.

Shakib is participating in various franchise tournaments abroad currently. He played for Bangla Tigers in the Abu Dhabi T10 League and represented Galle Marvels in the Lanka T10 League.



Title: India's Jadeja seeks more runs from top order to relieve pressure

The all-rounder helped India avoid the follow-on with a crucial 77 lower down the order

Indian all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja has called for a stronger batting display from the heavyweights atop the order to ease the pressure on the team when they take on Australia in the fourth Test starting in Melbourne next week.

The tourists eked out a draw in the rain-interrupted third game in Brisbane despite another top order failure, leaving the five-match series locked at 1-1 before the highly anticipated Boxing Day clash.

Jadeja helped India avoid the follow-on with a crucial 77 lower down the order in the first innings but said it was time for the specialists to fire.

"When you play outside India, especially in Australia or South Africa, it's important for the top order to make runs," Jadeja told reporters at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.

"If the top order doesn't make runs or give us a good start, then definitely there is more pressure and responsibility on the lower and middle order. Hopefully in this match they do well.

"As a team, we need them to perform. If everyone contributes in the batting unit, the team will do well."

Jadeja said India were pleased to be level with Australia at this stage with matches to come in Melbourne and Sydney, as they look to win a third successive series Down Under.

"The next two matches will be interesting," he added.

"If we win one match we retain the series, we obviously won the last two series here. It's a good opportunity. This will be a crucial match."

Jadeja said he and India will miss the experience of spin spearhead Ravichandran Ashwin, who retired after the previous game, but said there is no shortage of talent in the country.

"Hopefully we'll get another good bowler and all-rounder ... we have to move on," Jadeja said.

"It's a good opportunity now for any youngster who comes into the team to prove themselves at this level."



Title: Bangladeshi expats send over $2 billion remittance in three weeks of December

It marks five consecutive months with over $2 billion in remittances

In the first 21 days of December 2024, expatriates have sent nearly $2.07 billion in remittances to their families and beneficiaries.

In contrast, $1.72 billion was received in the first 23 days of November.

Throughout the entire month of November, $2.19 billion in remittances came through banking channels.

On Sunday, Bangladesh Bank released an updated report revealing that remittances exceeded $2 billion in three weeks, marking five consecutive months with over $2 billion in remittances.

Since April this year, expatriates have been sending more than $2 billion each month, with the exception of July when the figure dipped below this threshold.

Commenting on the upward trend, Syed Mahbubur Rahman, managing director of Mutual Trust Bank, told bdnews24.com: "The remittance rate through banking channels has increased from before, which is why more remittances are coming."

In addition to a 2.5 percent incentive, expatriates are receiving over Tk120 per dollar when sending money through banks. Bankers believe this has significantly boosted remittances through banking channels.

In May of this year, the central bank introduced the "crawling peg" system to determine the dollar exchange rate, causing the dollar rate to jump from Tk 110 to 117. Later, the remittance rate through banking channels was set at Tk 120 per dollar.

Thanks to the positive trend in remittances, $11.11 billion was received during the five months from July to November of the current 2024–25 fiscal year.

This marks a 26.40 percent increase compared with $8.79 billion during the same period in the previous fiscal year.



Title: WB, ADB to give $1.1bn in support for Yunus govt

The interim government hopes the funds will be made available to them in December

The Ministry of Finance says that the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have approved $1.1 billion in budget support for the interim government led by Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus.

The government hopes the funds will be made available this December.

The WB has approved two budget support funds amounting to $500 million and the ADB has approved $600 million in support to accelerate the interim government’s reform and development activities.

In addition to the budget support, the WB has also approved $379 million for the health and nutrition sector and $280 million in project support for developing the water supply system in Chattogram.

On Dec 18, a loan agreement of $600 million was signed between the Bangladesh government and the ADP for the programme titled “Strengthening Economic Management and Governance Program”. The programme was formulated under an initiative by the Finance Division.

On Dec 19, the WB approved $500 million in budget support for Bangladesh. It is providing the funds under the “Second Bangladesh Green and Climate Resilient Development Credit”, which aims to support reforms to help the country's transition to green and climate-resilient development.



Title: Inflation figures are not manipulated, reflect reality: Finance Advisor Salehuddin

The finance advisor dismisses claims of manipulation, clarifies the causes behind rising inflation rates

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has clarified that the rising inflation rate is a true reflection of the economy, rejecting claims of manipulation.

He explained that the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, or BBS, was instructed to release the data that was available, with no attempt to hide information.

Speaking at the launch of the sixth edition of the Banking Almanac at Dhaka's CIRDAP auditorium on Saturday, Salehuddin acknowledged past discrepancies in data related to inflation and gross domestic product, or GDP, attributing them to both unintentional mistakes and attempts by policymakers to conceal information.

Despite multiple interest rate hikes, inflation has continued to rise in Bangladesh, hitting 11.38 percent in November, up from 10.87 percent in the previous month.

This means that a basket of goods and services that cost Tk 100 in November 2023 would cost Tk 111.38 in November 2024.

The finance advisor said that the interim government is not here to show off its capacity, but to address discrepancies in the last 15 years of data.

He said efforts are underway to correct and revise this information, which was previously concealed.

He also said donor organisations have raised questions about the issue, but the interim government have clarifying that the earlier data was hidden and that they are now presenting the correct figures.

The advisor also highlighted issues in the capital markets, criticising investors for buying worthless "Z-category" shares with no real value, warning that these will soon become worthless.

He urged investors to be cautious and criticised market players and regulators for their roles in the ongoing issues.



Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



