Category: https://bdnews24.com/budget2024-25

Title: Will NBR’s revenue collection in June hit Tk 856bn to meet FY24 target?

In the last month of the financial year, the NBR needs nearly three times higher than the 11-month average to achieve the target

ঢাকার আগারগাঁওয়ে উদ্বোধনের অপেক্ষায় দৃষ্টিনন্দন জাতীয় রাজস্ব বোর্ড ভবন। ছবি: আসিফ মাহমুদ অভি

The National Board of Revenue, or NBR, will have to collect Tk 856.22 billion in June to meet the revised target set for FY 2023-24.

In the budget for the outgoing fiscal year, former finance minister AHM Mustafa Kamal had initially set a revenue target of Tk 4.3 trillion for the NBR. This was later revised downward by Tk 200 billion to Tk 4.1 trillion.

In the first 11 months of the fiscal year, from July to May, the NBR collected Tk 3.24 trillion, averaging Tk 290 billion per month.

So, in the last month of the financial year, the NBR needs nearly three times higher than the 11-month average to achieve the target.

In the 11 months, the NBR’s collection has not been far from the target.

The revenue target from income tax, VAT, and customs was Tk 3.26 trillion. And, the NBR was only Tk 13.62 billion shy of it, achieving 99.58 percent of the target.

For the concluding month, the NBR has already set a target of Tk 842.6 billion, requiring a collection increase of about 1.5 percent from the previous months.

When asked whether it would be possible to meet the target in the last month, former NBR chairman Muhammad Abdul Mazid told bdnews24.com: "It’s not unusual to collect more than usual in the final month."

"The NBR's longstanding practice often involves early revenue collection from companies to achieve its targets, typically coordinated between July and August," he added.

Comparing the final month's such a high revenue target with the 11-month period, he said: "This is a revised revenue target. The NBR has set targets in this way, which they will be able to achieve.”

“We'll need to assess how much of the earlier budgeted target has been met. This will show a huge deficit by the fiscal year's end," Mazid said.

REVENUE GROWTH ON TRACK

Analysing the NBR's previous revenue collection trends, it is evident that tax administration typically meets around 90 percent of its targets.

However, this year, revenue collection has notably increased, leading officials to anticipate that the NBR will come very close to meeting the goal.

Member of NBR’s VAT implementation and IT, Moinul Khan, told bdnews24.com: "Compared with last year, we have collected more revenue. We have increased our capabilities and reduced the gaps. We have collected all the longstanding dues by improving intra-departmental communication over the years.”

"We think we'll get very close to meeting this year's revenue target. We're hopeful we'll achieve the VAT target, especially with the IMF's relaxed conditions," he added.

Although the government revised the revenue target to Tk 4.1 trillion, the International Monetary Fund conditions under a $$.7 billion loan programme require collecting Tk 4.005 trillion this fiscal year.

Bangladesh has agreed to increase the tax-GDP ratio by 0.5 percentage points this fiscal year to secure the loan.



Title: Maintaining growth while curbing inflation: Finance minister acknowledges balancing act

He warns that inflation control efforts could hinder economic growth

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali has told parliament the contractionary policies adopted to bring down inflation to 6.5 percent could slow down the pace of growth.

He shared the concerns in his closing remarks during the general discussion on the proposed budget for FY 2024-25 on Saturday.

To build a prosperous Smart Bangladesh by 2041, the minister addressed the challenge of balancing contradictory goals for economic stability, stressing the need for sustained high economic growth.

In the proposed budget, the finance minister has prioritised achieving macroeconomic stability alongside controlling inflation.

He outlined the contractionary measures in the monetary policy aimed at controlling inflation, including raising the repo rate to 8.5 percent, aligning bank interest rates with market dynamics, encouraging exports and boosting remittance income.

He also spoke about implementing the crawling peg method in the exchange rate regime to increase foreign currency reserves.

"Through our policy measures to cut the budget deficit, limit discretionary spending, and implement austerity across sectors, we aim to bring inflation down to 6.5 percent in the next fiscal year," said the minister.

However, Mahmood Ali is sceptical about maintaining growth momentum despite low inflation.

He said, “It is undeniable that this approach in the long run can slow down growth. We need sustained high growth to build a developed, prosperous and smart Bangladesh by 2041.”

He noted Bangladesh is now the 33rd largest economy in the world as of 2023, with an average GDP growth exceeding 6.7 percent over the past one and a half decades.

He expects the growth to reach 6.75 percent in the next fiscal year and 7.25 percent in the medium term.

The minister said there is a favourable environment for both domestic and foreign investment, aiming to maximise employment creation.

He claimed in 'Smart Bangladesh' by 2041, the per capita income would reach at least $12,500.

“Extreme poverty will be eradicated, and fewer than 3 percent of the population will be below the poverty line.”

MORE FUNDS FOR EDUCATION AND HEALTH

The finance minister said the proposed budget prioritises education and health, with allocations increased by 11.6 percent compared with the revised budget for FY 2023-24.

“The allocation for education and technology has been increased by nearly 25 percent, while the health sector sees a 39 percent increase,” said the minister.

"In the proposed budget, we have tried to provide necessary allocations to education, health, agriculture, local government and rural development, power, communication, science and technology, etc. with the aim of building a smart Bangladesh. At the same time, we have given due importance to ensuring food security,” he added.

The minister said the national customs policy should be reformed keeping in mind Bangladesh’s scheduled graduation from the least developed country bracket in 2026.

"Dependence on import duty is being reduced so that it helps reduce apathy towards exports," he said.

To boost revenue and make the tax administration more effective and taxpayer-friendly, the minister outlined significant legal framework changes and plans to automate revenue collection processes.

He said, "We have also focused on increasing the non-tax revenue collection as much as we have on tax revenue.”

"We have taken the initiative to create an online database of all non-tax revenue, or NTR items, detailing their fees, charges, or values and dates of assessment. This will rationalise the charges and fees for these services and increase non-tax revenue income," he added.



Title: Wealthy taxpayers get reprieve with maximum rate unchanged at 25%

A new slab for top earners will be added in FY 2025-26, with a 30 percent tax

The highest income tax rate has remained unchanged at 25 percent in the upcoming 2024-25 fiscal year, despite Finance Minister AH Mahmood Ali’s proposal to raise it to 30 percent.

Parliament passed the new Finance Bill on Saturday, incorporating the changes to ease the tax burden.

Top earners have received a one-year reprieve. The highest tax rate will be 30 percent from FY 2025-26.

Ali has not raised the tax-free income limit in the new budget despite inflationary pressure and financial crunch.

He also provided some relief to middle-income taxpayers through adjustments in the tax regime.

Under the Finance Act, income up to Tk 350,000 will not be taxed. The next Tk 100,000 of income will be taxed at a rate of 5 percent.

Previously, a 10 percent tax was imposed on income between Tk 450,000 and Tk 750,000. Now, it will be applicable for up to Tk 850,000 income.

For income from Tk 850,000 to Tk 1.35 million, the tax will be 15 percent. Previously, income from Tk 750,000 to Tk 1.15 million was taxed at 15 percent.

As per the 2023-24 fiscal year's budget, a 20 percent tax rate applies to income between Tk 1.15 million and Tk 1.65 million. This time, a 20 percent tax rate will apply to income between Tk 1.35 million and Tk 1.85 million.

Finally, a 25 percent tax rate will apply to any remaining income after Tk 1.85 million.



Title: Parliament passes Finance Bill 2024-25 with some changes

The budget for the upcoming fiscal year is expected to be passed on Sunday

Parliament has passed the Finance Bill for the upcoming 2024-25 fiscal year with some changes.

The Bill was passed by a voice vote during Saturday’s session presided over by Speaker Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury.

Several MPs proposed changes to the original Bill placed by Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali. He accepted some of the proposals.

Leader of the House Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Leader of the Opposition GM Quader took part in the general discussion on the proposed budget earlier.

The finance minister then delivered his closing speech on his first budget worth Tk 7.97 trillion.

The budget for the upcoming fiscal year is expected to be passed on Sunday. The MPs discussed the proposed budget for 11 days.

The Finance Bill has retained the proposed provision to allow legalisation of undisclosed income by paying a 15 percent tax amid a debate over the option.

No questions will be asked if the undisclosed income is used for buying land or flat by paying the tax. Such income can be in cash, company share, or other types of investments.

The maximum income tax has been kept unchanged at 25 percent instead of the proposed 30 percent.

The Finance Bill includes a provision exempting income from Universal Pension Scheme and premium paid for the scheme from tax.

A 15 percent tax has been imposed on capital income of companies, funds and trusts. In the proposed Bill, the provision was kept for individuals only.

The Finance Bill has also exempted government agencies from environmental surcharge for more than one car.

If someone shows at least 15 percent more income in the tax return than the previous year, they will not require audits.

Tax return has been made mandatory for renting a community centre or convention hall in city corporation areas. In the proposed Bill, the provision was applicable to such establishments across the country.



Title: IMF pressure fails to curtail tax exemptions amid ballooning budget deficit

The deficit for the coming fiscal year has been set at Tk 2.57 trillion. Tax exemptions over this period are nearly Tk 1.63 trillion

Although the Bangladesh government has agreed to many of the International Monetary Fund's conditions under its loan agreement, it has not yet acted on eliminating tax exemptions to boost revenue and reduce the widening budget deficit.

The finance minister's budget for the 2024-25 fiscal year entails a Tk 2.57 trillion deficit, while tax exemptions granted by the National Board of Revenue total nearly Tk 1.62 trillion. Little surprise that the NBR is struggling to meet its tax collection targets.

In the budget speech, the finance minister noted that tax exemptions could add up to Tk 1.5 trillion at the end of the current fiscal year. However, the Bangladesh Economic Review 2023-24 conducted by the Ministry of Finance says that the tax exemption at the end of the current financial year will be Tk 1.78 trillion.

If subsidies are added to this, the number reaches Tk 2.89 trillion, according to the review.

This means that the amount spent on subsidies and passed over in taxes is greater than the proposed budget deficit for the upcoming fiscal year.

Economists say that the capacity of the NBR should be increased along with increasing the tax collection target. In addition, exemptions should gradually be withdrawn from the sectors which have benefited from them for a long time.

The scope of these exemptions is driving up the size of the deficit. To fill the deficit, the government has to borrow. That borrowing puts huge pressure on the government to pay interest on that loan in subsequent years.

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali presented a budget for the coming fiscal year with an outlay of Tk 7.97 trillion. The revenue collection target from domestic sources has been fixed at Tk 5.41 trillion. This means Bangladesh will run up a deficit of Tk 2.57 trillion.

Bangladesh has one of the lowest tax-to-GDP ratios in the world. Currently, the tax revenue is about 8 percent of the gross domestic product or GDP. The Policy Research Institute think tank believes it should be pushed up to 15 percent.

Due to low tax revenue, Bangladesh collects high rates of import and supplementary duties.

Economists argue that this discourages investment. As investment is tepid, this stifles employment, which further dampens tax revenue.

Finance Minister Mahmood Ali spoke of reducing tax exemptions at various levels in the proposed budget to increase revenue. He said, “However, there is a likelihood of decreased income from import duty because of graduation from the LDC status, signing free or preferential trade agreements with various nations and organisations and compliance of conditions of WTO.

In this context, Income Tax and VAT (Value Added Tax) will be the main sources of financing.”

The Awami League government says it wants to reach the status of an upper middle-income country by 2031 and become a smart, prosperous and developed country by 2041. There seems little likelihood of this happening if the tax-to-GDP ratio does not rise.

The budget signals that Bangladesh has plans to reduce the deficit and phase out tax exemptions to raise revenue.

The maximum income tax on individuals has been raised from 25 percent to 30 percent.

WHAT IS A TAX EXEMPTION?

The Finance Department of the Ministry of Finance labels 'tax exemptions' as 'tax expenditure'.

“’Direct Tax Expenditure’ means rebates, exemptions, tax at a reduced rate and exclusion of income from computation of total taxable income,” the finance minister’s budget speech said.

“It is a type of tax subsidy. That is, if this subsidy was collected as tax, it would be added to the total tax collected and the amount of tax would increase. The total subsidy will also be included in the total subsidy along with other subsidies from the government

HOW MUCH IS EXEMPTED ANNUALLY?

The finance minister’s budget speech gave an idea of how much tax revenue is exempted annually.

According to data from the NBR, the total estimated amount of ‘direct expenditure’ was nearly Tk 1.29 trillion in the 2020-21 fiscal year, about Tk 1.16 trillion in the 2021-22 fiscal year – of which Tk 719.54 billion was at the company level and Tk 436.62 billion was at the natural person level.

Overall, the exemptions were 2.91 percent of the total GDP for the 2021-22 fiscal year, compared to 3.56 percent in the previous fiscal year.

The projected tax exemptions for 2023-24 stood at nearly Tk 1.49 trillion.

Former NBR official Shams Uddin, who led the preparation of the Direct Tax Expenditure report, told bdnews24.com, "The entirety of salaries paid to government and private sector workers is not taxed. If it was collected, the amount of revenue would have gone up.”

bdnews24.com

In Bangladesh, the tax-free income limit is Tk 350,000 per year. Apart from this the government also exempts tax from 50 percent of the basic salary or Tk 25,000 per month, or Tk 300,000 – whichever is less; a maximum of Tk 28,500 for housing costs for government workers; a maximum of 10 percent of salary or Tk 60,000 for medical expenses, and Tk 3,000 per month – or Tk 36,000 per year – on travel expenses.

According to this, the maximum tax exemption for employees is Tk 788,000.

In fiscal year 2021-22, Tk 23.72 billion was provided as export cash subsidy, Tk 2.84 billion for education, Tk 24.14 billion for dividends, and Tk 10.08 billion in the IT and software sector.

Another Tk 25.82 billion was discounted for poultry and fisheries, Tk 43.69 billion for the garments and textiles sector, Tk 40.22 billion for economic zones and hi-tech, Tk 76.11 billion for power and energy, Tk 117.09 billion for remittances, Tk 111.34 billion in microcredit, and Tk 121.23 billion in share capital gain.

The finance minister has partially withdrawn the exemptions on capital gains in the budget for the coming fiscal year. The finance minister has proposed a 15 percent tax rate if the profit is Tk 5 million at the individual level. However, it is not possible to say how much money will be added to the government’s coffers in this way as the stock market fell in response to the proposal.

Shams Uddin said, “Government officials have been given exemptions for allowances, airfares and entertainment tax. Some sectors and industries also have tax holidays. No tax is taken from them. These tax holidays are given to grow new sectors or to give special benefits.''

The direct tax expenditure report was prepared by combining the exemptions from the existing tax structure and the potential tax revenue collected, he said.

'NOT ALL TAX EXEMPTIONS SHOULD GO'

Taufiqul Islam Khan, a senior researcher at the Centre for Policy Dialogue or CPD, is against the complete removal of all tax exemptions.

"Every country in the world has a tax-free income limit. Why will the government put a tax on remittance? The income does not come from this country. These people are already paying their taxes abroad," he told bdnews24.com.

When asked how the government can increase its income, Taufiqul said: "Some sectors of the corporate organisations have been getting exemptions for years. The amount is high, and it should be withdrawn gradually."

While stating that the garment sector, private power generation plants, agriculture sector, corporate organisations, and export-focused industries leverage maximum tax exemptions, he emphasised, "The agriculture sector has been kept tax-free to benefit the farmers. A farmer doesn't earn much. But now, corporations are taking advantage of the tax exemption by investing in agriculture. Tax exemption should not be given to these corporations. It should be withdrawn."

"The budget should give out directives. An ongoing tax exemption cannot be lifted suddenly. The traders will need time to plan. They should be informed about the tax exemption amount beforehand."

NBR MISSES REVENUE TARGET

The government had set a target of collecting Tk 4.8 trillion from domestic sources in the financial year 2023-24. Of this, the NBR was tasked with collecting Tk 4.3 trillion.

However, the budget was revised, apprehending that it would be impossible to collect this amount.

Extrapolating the taxes collected in the first 10 months of the fiscal year, the 15.61 percent revenue growth is still insufficient to meet the growth target put forward in the revised budget for 2023-24 fiscal year.

To meet the revised target, the government needed to collect Tk 341.66 billion in revenue every month, but it was able to collect Tk 290 billion per month on an average.

NBR Chairman Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem fears that it may not be possible to collect this sum.

While speaking at a seminar on May 19, Muneem said, "Every year, the NBR is given higher targets, which are impossible to achieve."

"The tax collection process should be digitised and automated. Investing in this sector can increase the tax collection by Tk 100 for every Tk 0.22."

"STOP EXEMPTIONS AND RATIONALISE"

Zahid Hussain, the former lead economist at the World Bank's Dhaka office, told http://bdnews24.com: "The IMF has asked the government to stop tax leakage as one of its conditions for the loan. They want the government to minimise the tax expenditure. This is actually tax exemption."

"This means that the NBR is exempting the tax it was supposed to collect. However, the government said it has continued providing tax exemptions to increase revenue. But this always leaves a scope for corruption. They liaise with traders to decide the exemption rates."

Executive Director of CPD Fahmida Khatun told http://bdnews24.com, "One of the major problems in the economy is the increasing circulation of domestic resources. Revenues need to be increased against the GDP, which is not the case. So, the budget deficit is also increasing. The more the deficit increases, the more the government's debt rises."

According to Fahmida, people should be held accountable for tax evasion. "Tax breaks must be stopped. Rationalisation is needed here."

SHIFTING POWER FROM NBR TO PARLIAMENT

Bangladesh received its first instalment from the International Monetary Fund in February last year.

After the first tranche of the money was used up, the lender introduced new terms and conditions in its loan programme.

According to its reports, the IMF will evaluate the reforms to Bangladesh's financial sector in the loan programme in two categories.

One is the structural reforms of the financial sector, and the other is the achievement of targets set against various indicators on a day-to-day basis.

Although there has been some progress in the majority of the structural reforms, Bangladesh's foreign exchange management and revenue sectors are still not showing promising results.

Meeting the foreign exchange reserve and revenue collection targets set by the IMF was also an obstacle to getting the first and second loan instalments.

The IMF has also asked the government to minimise exemptions at all levels of income tax, VAT, and import duties in the reforms.

After the second tranche of the money was cleared, it was recommended that the NBR shift its power of tax expenditure to parliament.

Hussain said, "People are paying taxes. They have the right to know if a tax exemption exists for a special group or class. If the power is given to parliament, transparency and accountability will increase."

According to Muhammad Abdul Mazid, a former NBR chairman, revenue collection cannot be increased without addressing the complexity of various economic sectors.

"It is not even in the hands of the NBR. The VAT Act took more than a century to be implemented. The government needs to be decisive so that the collection capacity can be increased," he added.

[Writing in English by Ruhshabah Tabassum Huda]



Title: Ruling party MP wants option to legalise black money in stock market

He criticises the option, but adds that the opportunity can be allowed for investment in the troubled capital market

The ruling Awami League’s MP from Jamalpur-1 Noor Mohammed has criticised the option to legalise undisclosed income, but added the opportunity could be allowed if it is aimed at investments in the struggling capital market.

During the first general discussion on the proposed budget for the FY 2024-25 in the parliament on Tuesday, Noor said the government should not have treated honest taxpayers unfairly in its past initiatives to legalise so-called black money.

Reintroducing the option is “discriminatory and unethical”, he added.

Highlighting the downturn in the stock market over the past two months, he urged Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali to consider allowing the whitening of black money through investments in the stock market.

He also demanded the withdrawal of taxes related to the capital market.

The Jamalpur-1 MP appealed to the finance minister to reconsider the proposal for a 25 percent tax on imported vehicles for MPs.



Title: I loved 6.5% budget inflation target, but it’s tough to achieve: MA Mannan

The former planning minister discusses AH Mahmood Ali’s first national budget with bdnews24.com at Inside Out

MA Mannan admires Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali for his “courage and vision” in declaring a 6.5 percent inflation target in his first national budget, but says it will be “very difficult” to achieve.

The former planning minister discussed different aspects of the FY25 budget and the current state of Bangladesh’s economy with bdnews24.com at Inside Out, a video of which is available on the internet newspaper’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.

The government has not significantly cut spending on subsidies, but it has raised taxes to try and generate more revenue. But the public’s main focus is clear – what is being done about inflation?

What lies ahead? Will the last two difficult years of tightening belts and eye-watering prices ease any time soon?

Are the specifics of the budget sufficient and its targets realistic in an economy roiling under runaway inflation and global economic headwinds?

The public want to know what is being done about inflation, given that in the past two years, inflation has hovered around 10 percent. Mannan acknowledged it is a very important issue as long as it affects the people’s daily living.

“Let me begin by saying one thing. I salute the finance minister, his courage and his vision. But coming to 6.5 in one-year time, I would like to, I would love it, but I think it's going to be very difficult,” he said.

bdnews24.com asked what is making it so difficult for Bangladesh to manage to turn around like others with even higher inflation rates after the Ukraine war had begun.

Mannan said Bangladesh’s recovery cannot be as fast as that of the rich countries in the West because they are a mature economy.

“Their GDP and their production, their outputs don't increase so much as in our case. We have a growth rate of 5, 6, 7, 8 percent.

The United States, Canada, Britain cannot imagine that kind of growth. Two pr 1 percent  is enough for them, more than enough. Because their pot is already full.

DEFICIT, REVENUE AND BORROWING

The budget has been praised for keeping the deficit to GDP ratio below 5 percent. However, this amount is still Tk 2.5 trillion.

Asked if that seems like a massive amount, Mannan said keeping the deficit below 5 percent of the GDP is not a must.

“Fortunately or interestingly, our economy, our finance ministers have always remained below 5. But it's not a sort of a golden rule that you have to abide by. There is no such thing,” he said.

The finance minister has set an ambitious tax collection target for this budget even though the National Board of Revenue has struggled to collect the amount of taxes that have been targeted by budgets for several years. Asked if the task is huge for the NBR, Mannan said: “Since we are a growing economy, we are all short and we don't have much underground resources like oil and gas and this and that. We don't have much above ground also like the rich countries have. In the rich countries, their money also works for them.

“Dollar is the strongest in the world. Simply by being the main currency they earn so much. So we are up against very strong positions of the very rich countries.

“We have to fight against that. There is no way of fighting. We have to work harder and harder and harder.

“We know that we are not given proper wages. We know that we are short changed. We may feel bad but there is no alternative. We must give more attention to work,” he said.

To raise their local revenue, every government sets a very high ambition for the NBR because “we need more money”, the former minister remarked.

He said the NBR indeed fails to achieve the revenue targets, but setting the goal higher keeps the board under pressure so that they collect higher revenues.

And their deficiency leads to borrowing from domestic and foreign sources like banks, other countries and global and regional lenders.

“There’s no economy without borrowing in the world,” Mannan said.

“The only way to escape from borrowing is to do nothing – don't eat much, don't drink any water, sleep at home and do nothing. So you reduce and reduce and die. That we cannot do.”

“We want to live better. We want better houses, better medical care, better roads. All of us must work and work better, produce more,” he said.

Mannan added that only working will not help produce more, so people need to develop skills.

“That is the number one thing. And secondly, good civil servants, good engineers, good economists, good planners, and we borrow and we work together. That is simple.”



Title: MP Suhrab feels 15% tax to whiten black money is ‘too high’

He says the rate should be 5 percent to encourage more people to show their undisclosed income

Md Suhrab Uddin, an Awami League leader and independent MP from Kishoreganj-2, has demanded lowering the 15 percent tax for legalising undisclosed income without facing questions.

Suhrab does not agree to call it an option to launder dirty money and argues that the lower the tax on such income, the greater the possibility to legalise the funds.

Suhrab, convenor of Pakundia Upazila Awami League, discussed the issue in parliament on Sunday after Finance Minister AH Mahmood Ali reintroduced the provision in his proposed budget last week.

Economists and anti-corruption activists have decried the option, saying it will encourage corruption, and discourage the general public from paying up to 30 percent tax on their legal income.

But Suhrab said money is being smuggled out of the country, fuelling the dollar crisis, and this will not stop if there is no option to disclose previously undeclared income. “Actually it’s not whitening black money, but an option to show undisclosed income. There’s no problem even if the tax is 5 percent in this case. The lower the tax, the more undisclosed income will be disclosed,” he said.

“The 15 percent tax is too high. Many won’t show their undisclosed income at this tax rate. If the rate is lowered, the state’s revenue and investment opportunities will increase.”

“More options can be added here. No questions can be asked in case of land or machinery purchase,” Suhrab said.



Title: SANEM criticises govt's budget targets, calls for 2-year economic recovery plan

The non-profit research organisation proposes a 2-year plan for economic recovery

Researchers of the South Asian Network on Economic Modeling, or SANEM, have criticised the government's targets for controlling inflation and achieving growth in the proposed budget for the FY 2024-25, deeming them “unrealistic”.

The non-profit research organisation proposed a two-year plan for economic recovery during a post-budget press conference at Dhaka’s BRAC Centre on Saturday.

Their proposed initiatives are insufficient to control inflation, said SANEM Executive Director Selim Raihan.

Without appropriate actions, Bangladesh's economic condition will worsen by the end of the next fiscal year, he said.

Raihan also highlighted the increasing burden of foreign debt and the impending graduation from least developed country status.

This transition will introduce additional challenges to the existing ones, he said, emphasising the need for a strong focus on diversifying investments.

"The most important thing is to repay loans in foreign currency, so projects should be able to generate foreign currency. Otherwise, we can't make the payments.”

Diversifying exports is crucial for this, but the budget lacks initiatives for it, he said.

He added, "If we don't increase foreign investment, we'll face major problems repaying foreign loans."

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali presented a new fiscal plan worth Tk 7.97 trillion to parliament on Thursday.

Professor Raihan also said the proposed budget does not address economic challenges.

"We need to control inflation and stabilise the macroeconomy. Raising interest rates can hurt investment, yet we need investment for employment and growth. The budget doesn't offer solutions for these conflicting issues," he said.

The tax rate will add pressure on the lower and middle class, said SANEM boss Raihan.

Higher taxes on essentials like mobile phones will burden low-income people, while many wealthy individuals will avoid these taxes, he said.

The new budget proposes increasing the supplementary duty on mobile services from 15 percent to 20 percent and raising the value-added tax on SIM cards.

“Secondly, instead of prioritising direct revenue collection efforts, more focus has been placed on indirect methods because it is easier to implement than direct methods,” said Prof Raihan.

He strongly criticised the policy of allowing black money to be legalised by paying a 15 percent tax.

Raihan expressed concerns about the increasing burden of debt in the future and stressed the importance of properly evaluating megaprojects financed by loans.

At the press conference, Sayema Haque Bidisha, SANEM's research director and economics professor at Dhaka University, highlighted several current economic challenges.

She identified high inflation as a primary concern, alongside macroeconomic issues such as declining foreign currency reserves and the depreciation of the taka against the dollar.

The inflation target has been set at 6.5 percent in the new budget.

"We feel the budget could have been slightly smaller considering the economic situation and inflation," she said.

"For instance, the government’s borrowing plans from the banking system could further increase inflation. By reducing the budget deficit further, there was an opportunity to protect ordinary people from inflationary pressures by cutting domestic financing."

Professor Bidisha also said that as long as there is a difference between the bank rate and the open market rate, people will continue to use the informal money transfer system known as Hundi.

Bidisha believes that remittance senders should receive both financial and non-financial incentives.

"For instance, we can arrange for their social acceptance by providing separate facilities at the airport, giving special recognition in their villages, and offering various non-financial incentives."

She questioned the need for allocating 22 percent of the budget for the public administration sector for effective expenditure.

"We should focus more on the comfort and convenience of ordinary low- and middle-class people by reducing spending on luxuries such as luxury goods, imported items, foreign travel, and hospitality."



Title: Garment sector’s proposals overlooked in the budget, says BGMEA president

The proposed budget fails to address the key proposals from the key sector, claims SM Mannan Kochi

SM Mannan Kochi, president of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association, says that the proposed budget does not reflect the garment sector's proposals.

He made the statement during a joint press conference called to discuss the budget's implications at the BGMEA complex in Uttara on Saturday.

Two other associations in the garment sector, the Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers and Exporters Association and the Bangladesh Textile Mills Association were also in attendance.

In his written statement, BGMEA President Kochi said, "The budget statement highlights that controlling inflation will be the biggest challenge in the upcoming fiscal year due to the decline in foreign exchange reserves.”

“However, despite some policy support proposals for this key foreign exchange-earning sector [the garment sector], our main proposals to tackle the current tough situation have not been reflected in the budget."

Kochi claims the garment industry is in crisis due to falling product prices and a nearly 50 percent rise in local production costs over five years.

Claiming a sharp decline in garment export growth over the past 11 months, he said, "In May alone, it dropped by 17 percent. We increased wages by 56 percent, but our prices did not rise.”

“Instead, in the last 9 months, the prices of our main products have fallen by 8-18 percent”, he added.

BGMEA believes several proposals in the budget will not aid investment and job creation. These include:

- Increasing import duty on various construction materials used in steel building construction from 5 percent to 10 percent;

- Setting import duty on capital machinery and construction materials for factories in economic zones at 1 percent;

- Raising VAT on energy-efficient bulbs from 5 percent to 15 percent;

- Increasing the fee for new bond licences from Tk 50,000 to Tk 100,000 and the annual renewal fee from Tk 5,000 to Tk 10,000.

Kochi said, "We hoped for supportive policies for the garment industry in the budget. We had particularly deep expectations of reducing source tax to 5 percent and considering it as final taxation."

“Additionally, proposals like maintaining tax exemption on incentives, VAT exemption for essential industrial goods and services, resolving complexity in HS codes and weights, reducing income tax on ERQ from 20 percent to 10 percent, tax exemption on imports for the reinstallation of fire and safety equipment, and withdrawing 15 percent VAT on recycled fibre supplies for the garment industry were notably absent from the budget. This is disheartening for us.”

He pushed for consultation with stakeholders before implementing the Customs Act 2023 and called for the withdrawal of Section 171 of the Act.

He also presented a demand to maintain existing incentives in the garment sector until 2029, refrain from initiating any alternative incentives, implement an exit policy, and allocate special funds for food rationing until the same year

BKMEA Executive President Hatem said, "If advance income tax is required for exports, we request it is set at 1 percent to 0.5 percent. This requires returns and adjustments, for which we urge the government."

"We will face pressure if cash incentives are withdrawn. Therefore, we request the government's support," he added.

BTMA President Mohammad Ali Khokon commented that the government's decision not to provide gas-electricity connections and bank loans outside industrial areas would hinder growth and investment.

He said, "Production has decreased in factories in Gazipur and Narayanganj. Yet, the administration has instructed everyone to pay salaries and allowances properly."

Additionally, he emphasised the need for the government's attention in solving the ‘gas crisis’.



Title: Mahmood Ali optimistic his debut budget will ease economic strain

He appears in a post-budget press conference after his first national expenditure plan, focusing on inflation instead of traditional growth issues

For one and a half decades, AMA Muhith and AHM Mustafa Kamal took turns to face a barrage of scepticism in post-budget press conferences with many questioning feasibility of their growth targets, but that has not been the case for Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali.

In the former foreign minister’s first budget as finance minister, also the first of the Awami League government's fourth consecutive term, Ali has confronted a different beast: inflationary pressure.

This challenge has been acknowledged by no less a functionary than Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina herself as well as members of her cabinet and top officials.

Mahmood Ali, 81, an economics graduate who entered politics after retiring from his diplomatic career, set a modest 6.75 percent growth target after ambitious goals set over the past several years.

Speaking at the press conference on Friday, a day after presenting the budget in parliament, Ali sounded optimistic about achieving economic growth goals despite the pressures of nearly double-digit inflation.

He hopes to tame inflation to 6.5 percent.

The finance minister and his team at the press conference faced numerous questions about strategies to control inflation.

Finance Minister Ali says that top priority will be given to controlling inflation and this means that the government will continue to pursue contractionary policies.

State Minister for Finance Waseqa Ayesha Khan, State Minister for Commerce Ahasanul Islam Titu, Finance Secretary Md Khairuzzaman Mozumder and National Board of Revenue Chairman Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem, among others, joined him.

During the press conference, government ministers failed to outline a clear roadmap to address long-standing irregularities in the financial sector.

In contrast, NBR Chairman Muneem defended what critics have called an 'unrealistic' initiative to legalise undisclosed money.

After a four-year pause, the controversial provision found its way back to the budget for FY 2024-25 worth nearly Tk 7.97 trillion.

“Since inflation control is our highest priority, contractionary policies will continue for some more time,” Ali said at the post-budget press conference at the Osmani Memorial Auditorium in Dhaka.

However, the government will also be careful to ensure that growth does not suffer too much in the context of this policy stance, he said.

"All the necessary support has been continued so that our agriculture, industry and service sectors can continue their normal activities.”

“As a result, growth of 5.82 percent has been achieved in the current financial year despite a contractionary policy. We will be able to achieve 6.75 percent growth in the next fiscal year.”

He hoped these measures would start to bear fruit before 2025.

“We expect it [inflation]  to begin to decline by the end of this year. Let’s see. We must try. And, as you have noticed, we have reduced the scope of the budget a lot so that there is no pressure on prices.”

Ali intends to tamp down inflation even as reserves are dwindling, the global economy remains unstable, and the government is steadily increasing the price of electricity by withdrawing subsidies according to the conditions set by the International Monetary Fund under a $4.7 billion loan programme.

In the outgoing 2023-24 fiscal year, former finance minister Kamal announced a goal of restricting inflation to 6 percent. Later it was revised up to 7.5 percent. But even that goal could not be met.

According to data from the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, the 11-month average inflation rate in the current fiscal year until May stood at 9.73 percent, the highest in many years. This naturally means intense pressure on lower and middle-class families to afford daily necessities.

Economists are sceptical that the current finance minister will be able to stick to his confident target of 6.5 percent average inflation when it has remained above 9 percent for two years.

But Mahmood Ali remains optimistic.

"We have taken all the necessary steps to control inflation and are reviewing what further steps can be taken."

“The measures taken by us have made it possible to keep inflation at 9 percent. In the budget speech presented yesterday [Thursday], I mentioned the steps taken under the monetary policy and the fiscal policy."

Highlighting the context of inflation due to the Russia-Ukraine war after the COVID-19 pandemic, the finance minister said, “Inflation is still at 9 percent in our country. If the developed countries of the world increase interest rates in their countries to control inflation, the capital flow in our country will continue to decrease. At the same time, the volume of international trade also increased to a great extent.”

“This resulted in a large deficit in our current account balance. All in all, the pressure on the foreign exchange reserves increased and this led to a significant depreciation of the taka against foreign currencies. This is one of the main reasons why we have high inflation.”

"We have seen our neighbouring country Sri Lanka go bankrupt, and some have said Bangladesh is heading the same way. But we haven't. We're working on a continuous and dynamic model, which should be noted."

Eight cabinet members, an adviser to the prime minister, two government secretaries, the governor of Bangladesh Bank, and the NBR chairman attended the press conference.

The finance minister also let other ministers and officials answer questions related to their areas.

TITU EXPLAINS MEASURES TO REIN IN INFLATION

The officials were questioned on the feasibility of controlling inflation and the specific measures included in the budget to manage price levels.

In response, the state minister for commerce emphasised that addressing inflation is a key challenge outlined in the budget.

To alleviate some of the economic pressure, the tax on daily essentials such as rice, wheat, chickpeas, and lentils has been halved from 2 percent to 1 percent.

“The market is continually monitored by the Directorate of National Consumers Rights Protection. There has been no indication that the market has destabilised following the budget announcement,” he said.

Highlighting the government efforts to ease the inflationary pressure on people, Titu said, “We are providing subsidised food assistance to 10 million people through the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh and are considering proposals to expand this support in the future."

“Efforts are underway to establish permanent locations for TCB dealers and to ensure some products are sold at their original prices alongside subsidised items."

"Importantly, there have been no announcements about increasing commodity prices. On the contrary, we have announced reductions,"

Titu outlined several measures: reducing the import duty at source for some products from 2 percent to 1 percent, rationalising milk powder import duty, occasionally reducing commodity tax, withdrawing the minimum VAT on 10 products, lowering duty on 10 products, and eliminating supplementary duty on 19 products while reducing it on 172 products.

He noted that these tax reductions have been gradual, with other charges to be rationalised by the NBR over time.

‘NO NEED TO WORRY’ ABOUT BANK BORROWING

Finance Minister Ali targeted to secure funds to feed over 17 percent of the proposed Tk 7.97 trillion budget through bank loans.

The government will rely on bank loans to cover the large budget deficit, preferring local banks over low-interest foreign loans.

To fund this spending, he plans to raise Tk 5.41 trillion from the government revenue, which will be a big challenge to implement.

Despite this, the overall deficit between the government’s spending and revenue will be Tk 2.51 trillion, which is still 8 percent higher than the revised budget for the fiscal year 2023-24.

The deficit, at 4.6 percent of gross domestic product or GDP, is the lowest in the past decade.

Ali plans to borrow Tk 1.27 trillion from abroad and nearly Tk 1.61 trillion domestically. Of this, Tk 1.38 trillion will be from the banking sector, which is 17.25 percent of total government spending.

Finance Secretary Khairuzzaman Mozumder, accompanying Ali at the press conference, addressed concerns about government borrowings from banks exacerbating a liquidity crisis. He clarified that such borrowings are not the cause of liquidity issues within banks.

"We prioritise foreign loans as a standard approach, but as we graduate from the category of Least Developed Countries, these loans are decreasing. Consequently, we are increasingly turning to domestic sources," he explained.

Khairuzzaman also discussed the government's shift in borrowing strategy: "Historically, our focus was on savings certificates, which, while secure, come with higher interest costs. This is why we're steering away from them and toward utilising the banking system more."

The secretary revealed that the government's borrowing from banks in the current fiscal year exceeded its target by 18 percent. Despite this, Khairuzzaman is optimistic that the full Tk 1.37 trillion projected for borrowing in the upcoming financial year starting Jul 1 might not be necessary.

"When setting our targets, we anticipate a deficit since NBR may not meet the revenue goals. However, the actual amount borrowed from banks may be less if NBR's revenue collection exceeds expectations," he said.

Hasina's Finance Adviser Mashiur Rahman said that borrowing from banks is a common practice necessary to keep banks functioning.

“The problem of non-performing loans didn't happen overnight and has been influenced by various factors including bank weaknesses and economic conditions.

“The Awami League government is committed to reducing this issue.”

NBR BOSS DEFENDS OPPORTUNITY TO LEGALISE BLACK MONEY

The proposed budget includes a clause reintroducing the whitening of investments, such as black money, undisclosed assets, land, flats, and shares, by paying a 15 percent tax.

Criticising the decision, the Centre for Policy Dialogue or CPD said that offering a 15 percent tax rate to legalise black money is neither morally, nor economically justifiable, especially when the maximum tax rate for individuals is set at 30 percent.

The think tank argued that this penalises regular taxpayers.

Minister Ali asked NBR Chairman Muneem to respond to queries as reporters raised the issue at the press conference.

Despite defending the legalisation of black money, the NBR chairman could not say if anyone had done it before or how much money was involved.

Muneem explained, "When such amnesty is given, it's often perceived as a way to convert black money into white. However, this particular amnesty is aimed at addressing undisclosed assets that exist for various reasons."

He emphasised that many countries provide similar opportunities to declare assets that were previously unreported for unavoidable circumstances.

This measure, he claimed, was in response to demands from the business community and the common people, aiming to facilitate compliance and prevent money laundering.

Muneem said that black money typically does not benefit the national economy and is often spent abroad.

The government hopes to bring this money into the mainstream economy, encouraging individuals to declare their undisclosed assets and comply with tax regulations.

When asked if former inspector general of police Benazir Ahmed's black money could be legalised by paying a 15 percent tax, the NBR chairman responded that Benazir's case is currently under legal review.

The matter of Benazir Ahmed's assets has now fallen under criminal (legal) proceedings. Whether his assets can be legitimised by paying the 15 percent tax is now a legal question.”

GOVERNOR GAGGED

The tension between journalists and Governor Abdur Rouf Talukder over restrictions on media access to the Bangladesh Bank spilled into the post-budget press conference.

His move sparked outrage and led to a media blackout of his statements and of press conferences held by the Bank.

As Ali offered insights into the details of the budget, the conspicuous silence of Governor Talukder was both glaring and at times deafening.

In the press conference, the press itself decided to mute one of the key speakers - the governor.

As the finance minister moved to the Q&A session after his written speech, President of the Economic Reporters' Forum, ERF, Mohammad Refayet Ullah Mirdha, threatened to boycott the press conference if Rouf made any statement.

At that moment, when the minister looked towards Rouf, the governor indicated through a gesture that he would not speak.

And so he sat there, frozen out, remaining unusually silent for nearly two hours.



Title: Will ex-IGP Benazir get opportunity to legalise black money? NBR chairman answers

The matter has become a legal question now, says Muneem

Amid criticism of the inclusion of controversial provisions for 'whitening black money' in the new budget, NBR Chairman Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem has said former inspector general of police Benazir Ahmed will not be able to legalise his 'illegally acquired assets'.

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali proposed a budget of Tk 7.97 trillion for the fiscal year 2024-2025 in parliament on Thursday, which included the opportunity to legitimise undisclosed income by paying a 15 percent tax without facing questions.

The day after presenting the budget, he held a press conference at the Osmani Memorial Auditorium in the capital following the tradition. Ministers, state ministers, and secretaries from various departments attended it. They responded to journalists' questions and elaborated on various issues.

There, a journalist asked if people like the former IGP, after paying a 15 percent tax, will be able to whiten their black money.

The NBR boss responded by saying: “The matter of Benazir Ahmed's assets has now fallen under criminal (legal) proceedings. Whether his assets can be legitimised by paying the 15 percent tax is now a legal question.”

News of the former IGP’s vast ‘illegal’ assets surfaced in the media at the end of March, after which the matter went to the High Court, and the Anti-Corruption Commission, or ACC, began investigations. The court ordered the seizure of Benazir’s assets and freezing of his bank accounts.

As part of the investigation, the ACC also summoned Benazir, his wife, and two daughters for questioning. However, it has been reported in the media that the former IGP has already left the country with his wife.

NBR’s Muneem said, “In this case, how the assets can be legitimised by paying taxes is a legal question. We do not want to look at it so broadly. People might have some undisclosed assets for various reasons. We have proposed this to allow for the legitimisation of such undisclosed money.”

In the upcoming fiscal year's budget, the proposal has been made to increase the normal tax rate for individuals to a maximum of 30 percent.

The rule allows for the legitimisation of undisclosed income by paying additional fines after regular taxes. This time, the opportunity to legalise undisclosed income by paying a 15 percent tax has been included. The finance minister also mentioned amending the income tax law to incorporate this issue.

He said regardless of what other laws may exist, no agency, department, or ministry will be able to question this money in the future.

Another journalist asked how people in high positions in the government and administration, like Benazir, managed to evade the eyes of the investigators and reach such a level.

The Prime Minister's Economic Affairs Advisor Mashiur Rahman said, “Action will be taken according to the law of the land regarding Benazir Ahmed. As a citizen of the country, he will be granted the rights he is entitled to.”

He noted that the ACC is conducting the investigation and said Benazir has asked for time to appear before it for questioning. He has been granted time.

The Centre for Policy Dialogue, or CPD, also held a briefing earlier on Friday to give its reactions to the budget, where the issue of Benazir was brought up.

Journalists highlighted the concern of whether corrupt individuals would get a pass by paying taxes on assets acquired through corruption and irregularities.

In response, CPD’s distinguished fellow Mostafizur Rahman said, “For the first time, a provision is being added to the income tax law stating that no organisation or institution can question or take any action regarding the legitimised undisclosed income in the future.”

He questioned whether this would apply to the ACC as well and said, “This discourages good governance and encourages tax evasion.”



Title: NBR chief questions stock market tax incentives

The government has reduced the spread between corporate taxes of publicly traded and non-listed firms

The chairman of the National Board of Revenue has questioned tax exemptions for publicly traded companies, asking if the facilities really helped the capital market grow.

Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem answered questions on cutting the spread between corporate taxes of publicly traded and non-listed companies from 7.5 percentage points to 5 points in the national expenditure plan at a post-budget press conference on Friday.

Finance Minister AH Mahmood Ali also announced taxes for over Tk 5 million income from trading shares.

“I don’t know how effective the spread between the taxes of listed and unlisted companies is. The rate was kept low for the listed firms and the spread was high for a long time. Did our stock market grow much because of that?” Muneem asked.

After a collapse in 2010, the share market has continued to frustrate investors despite a raft of measures taken by the government, the central bank and the regulator.

“We don’t think only tax exemptions will help the stock market develop. Did we see good results from many types of tax incentives for the stock market? Does the problem lie somewhere else? Has it been identified?” the NBR chief asked.

“Still you [the journalist who raised the question] think that only tax exemptions can expand the capital market. The tax exemptions were there for a long time.”

Muneem observed that the NBR was levying new taxes, increasing existing taxes and lowering waivers because revenue collection must increase to cut the budget deficit.

“We must increase tax collection. We have pressure from inside and outside the country. That’s why taxes have been increased,” he explained.

Noting that the minimum corporate rate now stands at 20 percent, he said: “If we fix 15 percent tax, we won’t get revenue. Our state hasn’t reached that position yet.”



Title: What is the history of the Israel-Palestinian conflict?

The Gaza war is the bloodiest episode yet in a conflict between Israelis and Palestinians that has rumbled on for more than 75 years

Israeli soldiers prepare, amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas, near the border with Gaza, in Israel, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS/Amir Cohen

Israel and Hamas have been waging war since gunmen from the Palestinian militant group in the Gaza Strip stormed into southern Israel on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and capturing 253 hostages, by Israeli tallies.

Israel responded with a military assault in Gaza in which more than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed, according to Gaza health authorities. Nearly the entire population of 2.3 million people in the enclave has been displaced from their homes and much of the territory has been laid to waste.

The Gaza war is the bloodiest episode yet in a conflict between Israelis and Palestinians that has rumbled on for more than 75 years and destabilised the Middle East.

WHAT ARE THE ORIGINS OF THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT?

The conflict pits Israeli demands for a secure homeland in what it has long regarded as a hostile Middle East against Palestinians' unrealised aspirations for a state of their own.

In 1947, while Palestine was under British mandate rule, the United Nations General Assembly agreed to a plan to partition it into Arab and Jewish states and for international rule over Jerusalem. Jewish leaders accepted the plan, which gave them 56% of the land. The Arab League rejected the proposal.

Israel's founding father, David Ben-Gurion, proclaimed the modern state of Israel on May 14, 1948, a day before the scheduled end of British rule, establishing a safe haven for Jews fleeing persecution and seeking a national home on land to which they cite ties dating to antiquity.

In the late 1940s, violence had been intensifying between Arabs, who comprised about two-thirds of the population, and Jews. A day after Israel was created, troops from five Arab states attacked.

In the war that followed, some 700,000 Palestinians fled or were driven from their homes, ending up in Jordan, Lebanon and Syria, and in Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Palestinians lament this as the "Nakba", or catastrophe. Israel contests the assertion that it forced out Palestinians.

Armistice agreements halted the fighting in 1949 but there was no formal peace. Descendants of Palestinians who stayed put in the war make up about 20% of Israel's population now.

WHAT WARS HAVE BEEN FOUGHT SINCE THEN?

In 1967, Israel made a pre-emptive strike on Egypt and Syria, launching the Six-Day War. Israel captured the West Bank and Arab East Jerusalem from Jordan, the Golan Heights from Syria and the Sinai Peninsula and Gaza Strip from Egypt.

A 1967 Israeli census put Gaza's population at 394,000, at least 60% of them Palestinian refugees and their descendants.

In 1973, Egypt and Syria attacked Israeli positions along the Suez Canal and Golan Heights, starting the Yom Kippur War. Israel pushed both armies back within three weeks.

Israel invaded Lebanon in 1982 and thousands of Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas under Yasser Arafat were evacuated by sea after a 10-week siege. Israeli troops pulled out of Lebanon in 2000.

In 2005, Israel withdrew settlers and soldiers from Gaza. Hamas won parliamentary elections in 2006 and seized full control of Gaza in 2007. Major fighting flared between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza in 2006, 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2021.

In 2006, Lebanon's Iran-backed Hezbollah militants captured two Israeli soldiers in the border region and Israel launched military action, triggering a six-week war.

There have also been two Palestinian intifadas, or uprisings, from 1987 to 1993 and 2000 to 2005. In the second, Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups carried out suicide bombings in Israel, and Israel conducted tank assaults and airstrikes on Palestinian cities.

Since then, there have been several rounds of hostilities between Israel and Hamas, which refuses to recognise Israel and is regarded as a terrorist organisation by Israel, the European Union, the United States and other countries. Hamas says its armed activities are resistance against Israeli occupation.

WHAT ATTEMPTS HAVE THERE BEEN TO MAKE PEACE?

In 1979, Egypt became the first Arab state to sign a peace treaty with Israel, under which the Sinai Peninsula was returned to Egyptian rule.

In 1993, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO leader Arafat shook hands on the Oslo Accords establishing limited Palestinian autonomy in the West Bank and Gaza. In 1994, Israel signed a peace treaty with Jordan. But a summit six years later attended by Arafat, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and US President Bill Clinton at Camp David failed to secure a final peace deal.

In 2002, a proposed Arab League plan offered Israel normal relations with all Arab countries in return for a full withdrawal from the lands it took in the 1967 Middle East war, the creation of a Palestinian state and a "just solution" for Palestinian refugees. The presentation of the plan was overshadowed by Hamas, which blew up an Israeli hotel full of Holocaust survivors during a Passover seder meal.

Further peacemaking efforts have been stalled since 2014.

Under US President Donald Trump in 2020, Israel reached deals known as the Abraham Accords to normalise ties with several Arab states, including the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Morocco.

Palestinians stopped dealing with the US administration after Trump broke with US policy by recognising Jerusalem as Israel's capital. The Palestinians seek East Jerusalem as the capital of their future state.

Qatar and Egypt have acted as mediators in the latest war, securing a truce in late 2023 that lasted seven days, during which some hostages held by Hamas were exchanged for prisoners held by Israel, and more humanitarian aid flowed into Gaza.

Trump's Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff, who will formally take up the position after Trump takes office again, said in early December it would "not be a pretty day" if the hostages held in Gaza were not released before Trump returns to the White House on Jan 20.

WHERE DO PEACE EFFORTS STAND NOW?

Months of on-off talks on a further Gaza truce have so far proven fruitless, circling the same issues.

Above all, Hamas says it will free its remaining hostages only as part of a peace deal that ends the war. Israel says it will not end the war until Hamas is destroyed.

Other issues holding up a deal have included control over the border between Gaza and Egypt, the sequencing of reciprocal steps in any agreement, the number and identity of Palestinian prisoners to be released alongside Israeli hostages and free movement for Palestinians inside Gaza.

US President Joe Biden's administration has sought a "grand bargain" in the Middle East that would include normalisation of relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia. Riyadh says this would require progress towards creating an independent Palestinian state, which Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has ruled out.

WHAT ARE THE MAIN ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN ISSUES?

Among the issues: A two-state solution, Israeli settlements on occupied land, the status of Jerusalem, agreed borders and the fate of Palestinian refugees.

Two-state solution: An agreement that would create a state for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza alongside Israel. Netanyahu says Israel must have security control over all land west of the Jordan River, which would preclude a sovereign Palestinian state.

Settlements: Most countries deem Jewish settlements built on land Israel captured in 1967 to be illegal. Israel disputes this and cites historical and biblical ties to the land. Continued settlement expansion is among the most contentious issues between Israel, the Palestinians and the international community.

Jerusalem: Palestinians want East Jerusalem, which includes the walled Old City's sites sacred to Muslims, Jews and Christians alike, to be the capital of their state. Israel says Jerusalem should remain its "indivisible and eternal" capital.

Israel's claim to Jerusalem's eastern part is not recognised internationally. Trump recognised Jerusalem as Israel's capital, without specifying the extent of its jurisdiction in the disputed city, and moved the US Embassy there in 2018.

Refugees: Today about 5.6 million Palestinian refugees - mainly descendants of those who fled in 1948 - live in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, the Israeli-occupied West Bank and in Gaza. About half of registered refugees remain stateless, according to the Palestinian foreign ministry, many living in crowded camps.

Palestinians have long demanded that refugees and their millions of descendants be allowed to return. Israel says any resettlement of Palestinian refugees must occur outside its borders.



Title: Assad's final hours in Syria: Deception, despair, flight

His dramatic exit has ended 24 years of rule and halted the 13-year long civil war

A view shows a damaged poster of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad in Aleppo, after the Syrian army said that dozens of its soldiers had been killed in a major attack by rebels who swept into the city, in Syria Nov 30, 2024. REUTERS/Mahmoud Hassano/File Photo

Bashar al-Assad confided in almost no one about his plans to flee Syria as his reign collapsed. Instead, aides, officials and even relatives were deceived or kept in the dark, more than a dozen people with knowledge of the events told Reuters.

Hours before he escaped for Moscow, Assad assured a meeting of about 30 army and security chiefs at the defence ministry on Saturday that Russian military support was on its way and urged ground forces to hold out, according to a commander who was present and requested anonymity to speak about the briefing.

Civilian staff were none the wiser, too.

Assad told his presidential office manager on Saturday when he finished work he was going home but instead headed to the airport, according to an aide in his inner circle.

He also called his media adviser, Buthaina Shaaban, and asked her to come to his home to write him a speech, the aide said. She arrived to find no one was there.

"Assad didn't even make a last stand. He didn't even rally his own troops," said Nadim Houri, executive director of the Arab Reform Initiative regional think-tank. "He let his supporters face their own fate."

Reuters was unable to contact Assad in Moscow, where he has been granted political asylum. Interviews with 14 people familiar with his final days and hours in power paint a picture of a leader casting around for outside help to extend his 24-year rule before leaning on deception and stealth to plot his exit from Syria in the early hours of Sunday.

Most of the sources, who include aides in the former president's inner circle, regional diplomats and security sources and senior Iranian officials, asked for their names to be withheld to freely discuss sensitive matters.

Assad didn't even inform his younger brother, Maher, commander of the Army's elite 4th Armoured Division, about his exit plan, according to three aides. Maher flew a helicopter to Iraq and then to Russia, one of the people said.

Assad's maternal cousins, Ehab and Eyad Makhlouf, were similarly left behind as Damascus fell to the rebels, according to a Syrian aide and Lebanese security official. The pair tried to flee by car to Lebanon but were ambushed on the way by rebels who shot Ehab dead and wounded Eyad, they said. There was no official confirmation of the death and Reuters was unable to independently verify the incident.

Assad himself fled Damascus by plane on Sunday, Dec 8, flying under the radar with the aircraft's transponder switched off, two regional diplomats said, escaping the clutches of rebels storming the capital. The dramatic exit ended his 24 years of rule and his family's half a century of unbroken power, and brought the 13-year civil war to an abrupt halt.

He flew to Russia's Hmeimim airbase in the Syrian coastal city of Latakia, and from there on to Moscow.

Assad's immediate family, wife Asma and their three children, were already waiting for him in the Russian capital, according to three former close aides and a senior regional official.

Videos of Assad's home, taken by rebels and citizens who thronged the presidential complex following his flight and posted on social media, suggest he made a hasty exit, showing cooked food left on the stove and several personal belongings left behind, such as family photo albums.

RUSSIA AND IRAN: NO MILITARY RESCUE

There would be no military rescue from Russia, whose intervention in 2015 had helped turn the tide of the civil war in favour of Assad, or from his other staunch ally Iran.

This had been made clear to the Syrian leader in the days leading up to his exit, when he sought aid from various quarters in a desperate race to cling to power and secure his safety, according to the people interviewed by Reuters.

Assad visited Moscow on Nov 28, a day after Syrian rebel forces attacked the northern province of Aleppo and lightning drive across the country, but his pleas for military intervention fell on deaf ears in the Kremlin which was unwilling to intervene, three regional diplomats said.

Hadi al-Bahra, the head of Syria's main opposition abroad, said that Assad didn't convey the reality of the situation to aides back home, citing a source within Assad's close circle and a regional official.

"He told his commanders and associates after his Moscow trip that military support was coming," Bahra added. "He was lying to them. The message he received from Moscow was negative."

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Wednesday that Russia had spent a lot of effort in helping stabilise Syria in the past but its priority now was the conflict in Ukraine.

Four days after that trip, on Dec 2, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi met with Assad in Damascus. By that time, the rebels from the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) Islamist group had taken control of Syria's second-largest city Aleppo and were sweeping southwards as government forces crumbled.

Assad was visibly distressed during the meeting, and conceded that his army was too weakened to mount an effective resistance, a senior Iranian diplomat told Reuters.

Assad never requested that Tehran deploy forces in Syria though, according to two senior Iranian officials who said he understood that Israel could use any such intervention as a reason to target Iranian forces in Syria or even Iran itself.

The Kremlin and Russian foreign ministry declined to comment for this article, while the Iranian foreign ministry was not immediately available to comment.

ASSAD CONFRONTS OWN DOWNFALL

After exhausting his options, Assad finally accepted the inevitability of his downfall and resolved to leave the country, ending his family's dynastic rule which dates back to 1971.

Three members of Assad's inner circle said he initially wanted to seek refuge in the United Arab Emirates, as rebels seized Aleppo and Homs and were advancing towards Damascus.

They said he was rebuffed by the Emiratis who feared an international backlash for harbouring a figure subject to US and European sanctions for allegedly using chemical weapons in a crackdown on insurgents, accusations that Assad has rejected as a fabrication.

The UAE government didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

Yet Moscow, while unwilling to intervene militarily, was not prepared to abandon Assad, according to a Russian diplomatic source who spoke on condition of anonymity.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, attending the Doha forum in Qatar on Saturday and Sunday, spearheaded the diplomatic effort to secure the safety of Assad, engaging Turkey and Qatar to leverage their connections to HTS to secure Assad's safe exit to Russia, two regional officials said.

One Western security source said that Lavrov did "whatever he could" to secure Assad's safe departure.

Qatar and Turkey made arrangements with HTS to facilitate Assad's exit, three of the sources said, despite official claim by both countries that they had no contacts with HTS, which is designated by the US and the UN as a terrorist organisation.

Moscow also coordinated with neighbouring states to ensure that a Russian plane leaving Syrian airspace with Assad on board would not be intercepted or targeted, three of the sources said.

Qatar's foreign ministry didn't immediately respond to queries about Assad's exit, while Reuters was unable to reach HTS for comment. A Turkish government official said there was no Russian request to use Turkish airspace for Assad's flight, though didn't address whether Ankara worked with HTS to facilitate the escape.

Assad's last prime minister, Mohammed Jalali, said he spoke to his then-president on the phone on Saturday night at 10.30pm.

"In our last call, I told him how difficult the situation was and that there was huge displacement (of people) from Homs toward Latakia ... that there was panic and horror in the streets," he told Saudi-owned Al Arabiya TV this week.

"He replied: 'Tomorrow, we will see'," Jalali added. "'Tomorrow, tomorrow', was the last thing he told me."

Jalali said he tried to call Assad again as dawn broke on Sunday, but there was no response.



Title: From decree to defeat: Inside South Korea's failed martial law attempt

Yoon's shock move on Tuesday divided his ministers and his ruling People Power Party and unleashed six hours of political chaos in South Korea

People watch a TV screen broadcasting a news report on South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol's declaration of martial law and the following announcement that he will lift the martial law, after parliamentary vote, at a railway station in Seoul, South Korea, Dec 4, 2024. REUTERS/Kim Soo-hyeon/File Photo

At his confirmation hearing three months ago, South Korea's defence minister Kim Yong-hyun rejected accusations from the opposition that he wanted to impose martial law. It was, the conservative hardliner said, political propaganda.

But when tensions between President Yoon Suk Yeol and his political opponents reached a boiling point this week, it was Kim, a longtime confidant of Yoon, who recommended imposing martial law, according to a senior military official and impeachment filings by opposition figures on Wednesday.

Kim proposed the idea because he believed the liberal opposition had pushed Yoon to the edge, said the military source, who denied that planning for martial law had been in the works since before the confirmation hearing.

Yoon's shock move on Tuesday divided his ministers and his ruling People Power Party and unleashed six hours of political chaos in South Korea. His televised late-night declaration of martial law plunged one of Asia's largest economies into crisis and blemished the reputation of a U.S. ally that transitioned from dictatorship to a democratic success story in the 1980s.

By the time Yoon, 63, rescinded martial law early Wednesday following a vote by the opposition-dominated parliament to reject it, his political fortunes and his grip on the country had imploded spectacularly.

As the day wore on, many of Yoon's allies deserted him and support grew across the political spectrum for his impeachment and removal from office. He now faces an impeachment vote that the opposition is seeking to push through this week.

This account of the moments leading up to the martial law declaration and its aftermath is based on Reuters interviews with more than a dozen officials, lawmakers and staffers. Some spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a sensitive issue.

Four of these people highlighted the pivotal role played by Kim, a high-school buddy of Yoon, in supporting and facilitating a botched power grab that the president said was necessary to eradicate unspecified "pro-North Korean and anti-state forces" arrayed against him and the country.

The defence ministry said it had no comment on detailed questions posed by Reuters about Kim's involvement in planning the decree. In a statement released through the ministry on Wednesday, Kim took responsibility for the orders given to the troops who stormed the parliament building, and offered to resign.

A spokesperson for Yoon's office told Reuters that the martial law decree was done in accordance with the constitution and was necessary to protect democracy.

There have been more than a dozen declarations of martial law since the foundation of the South Korean republic in 1948, the last in 1979-1980 following the assassination of former President Park Chung-hee.

CABINET MEETING

The speed with which long-simmering disputes between the conservative government and its opponents over budgets, investigations and scandals spiralled stunned South Korea and its allies.

It also blindsided the ruling party, whose leader Han Dong-hoon told reporters the presidential office had not consulted with him about the move. He joined calls for Yoon to rescind the order.

About four hours before his 10:23 p.m. announcement of martial law, Yoon's office first told the national police chief to be on standby, a police official told Reuters. At 9pm Yoon convened a cabinet meeting.

At that meeting "most" members were against the plan, according to three government officials. Yoon forged ahead regardless.

Among those opposed were Prime Minister Han Duck-soo, a Yoon appointee who would become acting president if Yoon is removed from office, as well as Foreign Minister Cho Tae-yul, and Finance Minister Choi Sang-mok, one of the sources said.

A spokesperson for the prime minister's office said they had no comment. A foreign ministry official confirmed Cho attended cabinet meetings before and after the martial law announcement but did not elaborate. A finance ministry spokesperson could not be reached outside business hours on Wednesday.

Yoon, who was narrowly elected in 2022, has battled record low approval ratings as scandals engulfed him and his wife, and has expressed increasing frustration over opposition moves to control government budgets.

"The so-called Chungam faction, those who went to the same school as the president, these people have been assigned to positions with authority over martial law and those able to carry out martial law for several months already," said Kim Min-seok, a lawmaker from the opposition Democratic Party, who questioned Kim Yong-hyun at the September hearing.

Chungam is the name of the high school that Yoon attended alongside Kim Yong-hyun, who would become a key confidant of Yoon and his head of presidential security.

While the defence minister played an influential role, Kim Min-seok said he believes the president was ultimately calling the shots.

Yoon sought to use the military as a tool to prevent investigations into him and his wife over influence peddling allegations, among other scandals, and to maintain power, Kim Min-seok told Reuters in an interview at his office on Wednesday. Yoon and his wife have denied wrongdoing.

Outside the office, the halls of the parliament building bore the damage and debris from clashes with special forces troops the night before.

SCRAMBLE FOR PARLIAMENT

Kim Min-seok was among 190 lawmakers who rushed back to the domed National Assembly building on the south bank of the Han River after Yoon's TV address.

Central to the failure of Yoon's gambit was the swift and unanimous vote by lawmakers who defied police and special forces troops to gather in the legislature to block the martial law decree.

The main opposition parties summoned members of parliament and their staffers back to the building when they heard Yoon's speech. A short time later came a military decree banning activity by parliament and political parties and calling for government control of the media.

Confusion reigned as elected representatives, journalists, and others grappled with what the order meant for them. On YTN, a major broadcaster, a male anchor was visibly shaken, his voice trembling after Yoon's address.

By 10:50pm, just 25 minutes after Yoon's speech, police were blocking access to the parliament, Kim Min-gi, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, said at a briefing on Wednesday.

An "uncountable" number of police surrounded the main doors of the national assembly hall building, said Jeon Ki-eun, with the office of the parliamentary leader of the Democratic Party of Korea.

"Police were at all of the doors blocking lawmakers and citizens from going in and out," he said.

Lee Jun-seok, New Reform Party lawmaker and ousted former leader of Yoon's People Power Party, said it appeared that some police did not know what to do.

"I overheard some of them communicating over walkie-talkies, some saying 'let lawmakers in' and at other times 'don't let them in'," he said.

Some lawmakers, including Kim Min-seok and senior Democratic Party leaders, scaled the walls to enter the complex.

At about 11:40 p.m. the military began deploying 230 soldiers in 24 helicopter flights into the national assembly compound, and another 50 entered over a fence.

The American-designed UH-60P Black Hawk helicopters landed on a sports field inside the complex and disgorged masked soldiers.

Park Sun-won, a member of parliament who previously worked for the National Intelligence Service, provided Reuters with his analysis that concluded the troops included members of the 707th Special Missions Group, which is tasked with anti-terrorism and top-secret missions, and the 1st Airborne Special Forces Brigade, which had a history of involvement with a coup in 1979.

The military contingent also included the Special Duty Team (SDT) of the Army Capital Defense Command, another anti-terrorism unit.

Kim Tae-hyung, a member of boy band BTS who is known professionally as V, is serving his mandatory national service with the SDT in Seoul, though Reuters could not determine whether he participated in the operation.

When asked about the units deployed and whether the K-pop star was involved, the defence ministry said it could not comment on specific units or agents. BTS's agency, HYBE, was not immediately available for comment.

Another Democratic Party lawmaker, Kim Nam-geun, said he and 10 others were blocked by troops from entering a side door and resorted to climbing a wall.

"It was very intense," he said.

The troops tried to enter the main building, breaking windows, raising fears that they would block a vote, but lawmakers' aides and citizens helped build a barricade to block access.

Jeon said he and other staffers stacked chairs, tables, flower pots and other furniture against the doors, hoping that any lawmakers who had yet to arrive could make their way in through hidden corridors.

Footage showed some staffers using fire extinguishers to keep troops at bay. Lee Jun-seok said the troops were armed with non-lethal projectiles.

While scuffles broke out at the gates, there was no serious violence. And despite the order for media censorship, no such control was exerted.

"The generation that experienced real martial laws in Korea see this as child's play and an amateurish show because of what appeared to be the soldiers' inability to lock down the National Assembly, or perhaps even lack of communication from the command," said Duyeon Kim, a Seoul-based analyst with the Center for a New American Security.

HISTORIC VOTE

Shortly before 1 a.m., National Assembly Speaker Woo Won-shik convened a session. Within 10 minutes the gathered lawmakers unanimously passed a resolution calling for Yoon to lift the state of martial law.

Under South Korea's constitution the president must rescind a martial law decree if the parliament votes to oppose it.

"Inside the voting room, Democrats were pretty vocal and were absolutely unified on stopping this situation," Lee Jun-seok said. "It was obvious that the Democrats were in the driving seat, leading up to the vote."

Some members of Yoon's ruling party showed up for the vote, which passed 190-0.

Around 1:10 am, troops started leaving the parliament building. The last were gone by 2 am.

Finally, at 4:30am, Yoon backed down and said he would lift the martial law, sparking joyous celebrations among the thousands of demonstrators gathered outside the parliament.



Title: Saudi Arabia abandons pursuit of US defence treaty over Israel stalemate

Netanyahu seeks Saudi normalisation as milestone for Arab world acceptance

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken meets Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Oct 23, 2024. REUTERS/Nathan Howard/Pool/File Photo

Saudi Arabia has abandoned its pursuit of an ambitious defence treaty with Washington in return for normalising relations with Israel and is now pushing for a more modest military cooperation agreement, two Saudi and four Western officials told Reuters.

In a drive to get a wide-ranging mutual security treaty over the line earlier this year, Riyadh softened its position on Palestinian statehood, telling Washington that a public commitment from Israel to a two-state solution could be enough for the Gulf kingdom to normalise relations.

But with public anger in Saudi Arabia and the wider Middle East at fever pitch over Israel's military actions in Gaza, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has again made recognition of Israel conditional on it taking concrete steps to create a Palestinian state, two Saudi and three Western sources said.

Israeli Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu is still eager to secure normalisation with the Saudi powerhouse as a historic milestone and a sign of broader acceptance in the Arab world, Western diplomats said.

But he faces overwhelming opposition at home to any concessions to the Palestinians following the Oct 7 Hamas attacks and knows any gesture in the direction of statehood would fracture his ruling coalition, they said.

With both leaders shackled for now by their domestic powerbases, Riyadh and Washington hope a more modest defence pact could be sealed before President Joe Biden leaves the White House in January, the sources said.

A full-blown US-Saudi treaty would need to pass the US Senate with a two-thirds majority - and this would be a non-starter unless Riyadh recognises Israel, the six sources said.

The pact now under discussion would involve expanding joint military exercises and drills to address regional threats, mainly from Iran. It would foster partnerships between US and Saudi defence firms, with safeguards to prevent collaboration with China, the sources said.

The agreement would promote Saudi investment in advanced technologies, especially drone defence. The US would increase its presence in Riyadh through training, logistics and cyber security support, and may deploy a Patriot missile battalion to enhance missile defence and integrated deterrence.

But it would not be the kind of binding mutual defence treaty that would oblige US forces to protect the world's biggest oil exporter in the event of foreign attack.

"Saudi Arabia will get a security deal which will allow more military cooperation and sales of US weapons, but not a defence treaty similar to that of Japan or South Korea as initially sought," said Abdelaziz al-Sagher, head of the Gulf Research Institute think-tank in Saudi Arabia.

THE TRUMP DILEMMA

The picture is complicated further, however, by the impending arrival of Donald Trump in the White House.

While Trump's plan to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict excludes any provisions for Palestinian statehood or sovereignty, he is a close ally of the Saudi crown prince.

Palestinian and some Arab officials worry that Trump and his son-in-law Jared Kushner - architect of the "Deal of the Century" and also a close ally of the crown prince - may ultimately persuade him to support the plan.

How the prince reconciles Saudi priorities with this shifting diplomatic landscape will be pivotal, defining both his leadership and the future of the peace process, diplomats said.

The current US administration has not given up hope for a deal on security guarantees before Biden leaves office in January, but a number of obstacles remain. One person in Washington familiar with the talks said there was reason to be sceptical about whether there was enough time to strike a deal.

US officials are mindful that the kingdom is still interested in formally cementing the guarantees it has been seeking, especially to gain access to more advanced weapons, but are uncertain whether it would prefer to get it done under Biden, or wait for Trump, the source said.

"We continue to discuss and have many lines of effort on the table (with the Saudis)," the US official said.

The White House National Security Council declined comment when asked about efforts toward reaching a deal on US security guarantees for Saudi Arabia.

Netanyahu's office declined to comment when asked about the Saudi position on Palestinian statehood.

A defence treaty giving Saudi Arabia US military protection in exchange for recognising Israel would reshape the Middle East by uniting two long-time foes and binding Riyadh to Washington at a time when China is making inroads in the region.

It would allow the kingdom to shore up its security and ward off threats from Iran and its Houthi allies, to avoid a repeat of the 2019 strikes on its oil facilities, which Riyadh and Washington both blamed on Tehran. Iran has denied any role.

A senior Saudi official said the treaty was 95 percent complete but Riyadh opted to discuss an alternative agreement, given it was not doable without normalisation with Israel.

Depending on the format, a scaled-down cooperation agreement could be approved without going through Congress before Biden leaves office, two of the sources said.

There were other stumbling blocks in the negotiations to secure a mutual defence treaty.

For instance, there was no progress in the talks about civil nuclear cooperation because Saudi Arabia refused to sign a so-called 123 Agreement with the US that would have denied Riyadh the right to nuclear enrichment, the six sources said.

Saudi objections to articles related to human rights proved to be another area of disagreement, one Saudi source close to the talks told Reuters.

'THE BIG PRIZE'

While the Saudi leadership strongly advocates Palestinian statehood, it remains uncertain, according to diplomats, how the crown prince would respond if Trump revives the deal he floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The plan marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from the long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations.

It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank, including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley, and recognises Jerusalem as the "undivided capital of Israel" - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital, a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions.

By legitimising Israeli annexations, the Trump plan is viewed by many as a severe blow to the two-state solution and Palestinian hopes of statehood.

Saudi officials insist that the creation of a Palestinian state in accordance with previous international agreements, including East Jerusalem as its capital, remains an essential condition for long-term regional peace and stability.

Without it the cycle of violence will continue to jeopardise any normal relations, they say.

"How can we imagine a region integrated if we sidestep the Palestinian issue?" a senior Saudi official said. "You can't prevent the Palestinian right to self-determination."

And in some of the harshest criticism of Israel since the start of the Gaza war, the Crown Prince Mohammed called Israel's military actions in Gaza "collective genocide" in his address to an Arab and Islamic summit in Riyadh this month.

The potential for Saudi normalisation with Israel, however, could be revisited in the future, perhaps once the dust settles after the Gaza war - and possibly under a different Israeli government, diplomats said.

Fawaz Gerges, a Middle East expert at the London School of Economics, said Trump would leverage all possible avenues to secure historic normalisation between Saudi Arabia and Israel.

"For Trump, Saudi Arabia is the big prize," said Gerges.

"As to how normalisation could happen despite repeated Saudi leaders insistence they will not recognise Israel until a real path to a Palestinian state is set, Trump could promise a ceasefire in Gaza in return for normalisation and tentative promise to support a Palestinian state, without obliging Israel to make any real concessions to the Palestinians."



Title: Still counting its dead, Hezbollah faces long road to recover from war

Hezbollah emerges shaken from top to bottom, its leadership still reeling from the killing of its former leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah and its supporters made homeless en masse by the carpet bombing

A woman stands among the rubble of her house, after a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah took effect, in Tyre, Lebanon, November 27, 2024. REUTERS

With the bodies of its fighters still strewn on the battlefield, Hezbollah must bury its dead and provide succour to its supporters who bore the brunt of Israel's offensive, as the first steps on a long and costly road to recovery, four senior officials said.

Hezbollah believes the number of its fighters killed during 14 months of hostilities could reach several thousand, with the vast majority killed since Israel went on the offensive in September, three sources familiar with its operations say, citing previously unreported internal estimates.

One source said the Iran-backed group may have lost up to 4,000 people - well over 10 times the number killed in its month-long 2006 war with Israel. So far, Lebanese authorities have said some 3,800 people were killed in the current hostilities, without distinguishing fighters from civilians.

Hezbollah emerges shaken from top to bottom, its leadership still reeling from the killing of its former leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah and its supporters made homeless en masse by the carpet bombing of Beirut's southern suburbs and the destruction of entire villages in the south.

With a ceasefire taking hold on Wednesday, Hezbollah's agenda includes working to re-establish its organisational structure fully, probing security breaches that helped Israel land so many painful blows, and a full review of the last year including its mistakes in underestimating Israel's technological capabilities, three other sources familiar with the group's thinking said.

For this story Reuters spoke to a dozen people who together provided details of some of the challenges facing Hezbollah as it seeks to pick itself up after the war. Most asked not to be named to speak about sensitive matters.

Hassan Fadallah, a senior Hezbollah politician, told Reuters the priority will be "the people."

"To shelter them, to remove the rubble, to bid farewell to the martyrs and, in the next phase, to rebuild," he said.

Israel's campaign has focused largely on Hezbollah's Shi'ite Muslim heartlands, where its supporters were badly hit. They include people still nursing casualties from Israel's attack on its mobile communications devices in September.

"I have a brother who was martyred, a brother-in-law who was wounded in the pager attacks, and my neighbours and relatives are all either martyrs, wounded or missing," said Hawraa, a woman from south Lebanon with family members who fight for Hezbollah.

"We want to collect our martyrs and bury them ... we want to rebuild our homes," said Hawraa, who stayed in her village until she was forced to flee by the Israeli assault in September. She declined to use her full name, citing safety fears.

The Israeli offensive displaced more than 1 million people, the bulk of them from areas where Hezbollah has sway.

A senior Lebanese official familiar with Hezbollah thinking said the group's focus would be squarely on securing their return and rebuilding their homes: "Hezbollah is like a wounded man. Does a wounded man get up and fight? A wounded man needs to tend to his wounds."

The official expected Hezbollah to carry out a wide-ranging policy review after the war, dealing with all major issues: Israel, its weapons, and the internal politics of Lebanon, where its weapons have long been a point of conflict.

Iran, which established Hezbollah in 1982, has promised to help with reconstruction. The costs are immense: The World Bank estimates $2.8 billion in damage to housing alone in Lebanon, with 99,000 homes partially or fully destroyed.

The senior Lebanese official said Tehran has a variety of ways to get funds to Hezbollah, without giving details.

Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri, a close Hezbollah ally, is urging wealthy Lebanese Shi'ites in the diaspora to send funds to help the displaced, two Lebanese officials said.

The officials also expected significant donations to come from Shi'ite religious foundations across the region.

Hezbollah did not immediately respond to a detailed request for comment for this story. Iran's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

'THE RESISTANCE' WILL CONTINUE

Hezbollah has indicated it intends to keep its arms, dashing hopes of Lebanese adversaries who predicted the pressures generated by the war would finally lead it to hand them to the state. Hezbollah officials have said the resistance - widely understood to mean its armed status - will continue.

Hezbollah opened fire in support of Palestinian ally Hamas on Oct 8, 2023. Israel went on the offensive against the group in September, declaring the aim of securing the return home of 60,000 people evacuated from homes in the north.

Despite the resulting devastation, Hezbollah's Fadlallah said the resistance put up by its fighters in south Lebanon and the group's intensified rocket salvoes towards the end of the conflict showed Israel had failed.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says its campaign has set back Hezbollah decades, eliminated its top leaders, destroyed most of its rockets, neutralised thousands of fighters, and obliterated its infrastructure near the border.

A senior US official said Hezbollah was "extremely weak" at this moment, both militarily and politically. A Western diplomat echoed that assessment, saying Israel had the upper hand and had almost dictated the terms of its withdrawal.

The ceasefire terms agreed by Israel and Lebanon require Hezbollah to have no military presence in an area between the Israeli border and the Litani River, which meets the Mediterranean Sea some 30 km (20 miles) from the frontier.

Hezbollah, which approved the deal, has not declared how it intends to help implement those terms, including whether it actively hands its arms to Lebanese troops who are deploying into the south, or leaves the weapons for soldiers to find.

Israel complains Hezbollah, which is deeply rooted in south Lebanon, never implemented the same terms when they were agreed to end a previous war in 2006 war. Israel says the group was preparing for a large-scale assault into northern Israel, pointing to its military build-up at the frontier.

Andreas Krieg of King's College in London said Hezbollah had retained considerable capability.

The performance of its "core infantry fighters in southern Lebanon and rocket attacks deep into Israeli territory in recent days showed the group was still very, very capable," he said.

"But Hezbollah will be very much bogged down in the effort of rebuilding the infrastructure and also, most importantly, securing the funds to do so,” he said.

'REPAYING THE DEBT'

Hezbollah has been handing out cash to people affected by the hostilities since they began, paying $200 a month to civilians who stayed in frontline villages, and offering more as people were forced to flee the areas, according to recipients.

Since the start of the escalation in September, Hezbollah has been paying around $300 a month to help displaced families.

The group has made no secret of the military and financial support it gets from Iran, which shipped huge sums of cash to in 2006 to aid the homeless and help rebuild.

Hezbollah supporters say more will be on the way. One, citing conversations with a local Hezbollah official, said the group would cover a year of rent for the homeless in addition to furniture costs.

Addressing the Lebanese people in an October sermon, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said "the destruction will be replaced... repaying the debt to the wounded, bleeding Lebanon is our duty...".

The World Bank, in a preliminary estimate, put the cost in damage and losses to Lebanon at $8.5 billion, a bill that cannot be footed by the government, still suffering the consequences of a catastrophic financial collapse five years ago.

Gulf states Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia helped pay the $5 billion reconstruction bill in 2006, the last time Hezbollah and Israel went to war. But there has been no sign that these Sunni-led Arab states are ready to do so again.

Hezbollah conducted a lot of reconstruction work after the 2006 war, financed by Iran and using its construction wing. The project was directed by Sayyed Hashem Safieddine, a Hezbollah leader killed by Israel 11 days after Nasrallah, in a sign of the bigger challenges it will face this time round.

"For Hezbollah the priority is to guarantee the loyalty of the Shi’ite community. The destruction has been enormous and it will impact the organisation," said Mohanand Hage Ali of the Carnegie Middle East Center.



Title: In world's largest refugee camps, Rohingya mobilise to fight in Myanmar

Myanmar rebellion escalates post-coup, now involving Rohingya fighters

Rafiq, a Rohingya insurgent fighter poses for a picture during an interview with Reuters at a refugee camp, in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, Sept 28, 2024. REUTERS/Stringer

One day in July, Rafiq slipped out of the world's largest refugee settlement in southern Bangladesh and crossed the border into Myanmar on a small boat. His destination: a ruinous civil war in a nation that he had fled in 2017.

Thousands of Rohingya insurgents, like 32-year-old Rafiq, have emerged from camps housing over a million refugees in Cox's Bazar, where militant recruitment and violence have surged this year, according to four people familiar with the conflict and two internal aid agency reports seen by Reuters.

"We need to fight to take back our lands," said Rafiq, a lean and bearded man in a Muslim prayer cap who spent weeks fighting in Myanmar before returning after he was shot in the leg.

"There is no other way."

The Rohingya, a mainly Muslim group that is the world's largest stateless population, started fleeing in droves to Bangladesh in 2016 to escape what the United Nations has called a genocide at the hands of Buddhist-majority Myanmar's military.

A long-running rebellion in Myanmar has gained ground since the military staged a coup in 2021. It involves a complex array of armed groups - with Rohingya fighters now entering the fray.

Many have joined groups loosely allied with their former military persecutors to fight the Arakan Army ethnic militia that has seized much of the western Myanmar state of Rakhine, from which many Rohingya fled.

Reuters interviewed 18 people who described the rise of insurgent groups inside Bangladesh's refugee camps and reviewed two internal briefings on the security situation written by aid agencies in recent months.

The news agency is reporting for the first time the scale of recruitment by Rohingya armed groups in the camps, which totals between 3,000 and 5,000 fighters.

Reuters is also revealing specifics about failed negotiations between the Rohingya and the Arakan Army, inducements offered by the junta to Rohingya fighters such as money and citizenship documents, as well as about the cooperation of some Bangladesh officials with the insurgency.

Several of the people - who include Rohingya fighters, humanitarian workers and Bangladesh officials - spoke on condition of anonymity or that only their first name be used.

Bangladesh's government did not respond to Reuters' questions, while the junta denied in a statement to Reuters that it had conscripted any "Muslims."

"Muslim residents requested protection. So, basic military training was provided in order to help them defend their own villages and regions," it said.

The two largest Rohingya militant groups - the Rohingya Solidarity Organisation (RSO) and the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) - do not appear to have mass support in the camps in Cox's Bazar, said Shahab Enam Khan, an international relations professor at Bangladesh's Jahangirnagar University.

But the emergence of trained Rohingya fighters and weapons in and around the camps is regarded as a ticking time bomb by Bangladesh, one security source said. Some 30,000 children are born each year into deep poverty in the camps, where violence is rife.

Disillusioned refugees could be drawn by non-state actors into militant activities and pushed further into criminal enterprises, said Khan. "This will then suck in regional countries, too."

FIGHT FOR MAUNGDAW

After a boat-ride from near the camps to the western Myanmar town of Maungdaw around the midyear monsoon, Rohingya insurgent Abu Afna said he was housed and armed by junta troops.

In the seaside town where the military is fighting the Arakan Army for control, Rohingya were sometimes even billeted in the same room with junta soldiers.

"When I'd be with the junta, I would feel that I am standing next to the same people who raped and killed our mothers and sisters," he said.

But the Arakan Army is backed by the majority Buddhist ethnic Rakhine community that includes people who joined the military in purging the Rohingya.

Reuters this year reported that the Arakan Army was responsible for burning down one of the largest remaining settlements of Rohingya in Myanmar and that the RSO had reached a "battlefield understanding" with the Myanmar military to fight alongside each other.

"Our main enemy isn't the Myanmar government, but the Rakhine community," Abu Afna said.

The military provided Rohingya with weapons, training and cash, according to Abu Afna, as well as a Bangladesh source and second Rohingya man who said he was forcibly recruited by the junta.

The junta also offered the Rohingya a card certifying Myanmar citizenship.

For some, it was a powerful lure. Rohingya have long been denied citizenship despite generations in Myanmar and are now confined to refugee camps where Bangladesh bans them from seeking formal employment.

"We didn't go for the money," Abu Afna said. "We wanted the card, nationality."

About 2,000 people were recruited from the refugee camps between March and May through drives employing "ideological, nationalist, and financial inducements, coupled with false promises, threats, and coercion," according to a June aid agency briefing seen by Reuters, which was shared on condition the authors not be named because it was not public.

Many of those brought to fight were taken by force, including children as young as 13, according to a UN official and two Rohingya fighters.

Cash-strapped Bangladesh is increasingly reluctant to take in Rohingya refugees and a person familiar with the matter said some Bangladesh officials believed armed struggle was the only way the Rohingya would return to Myanmar. They also believed that backing a rebel group would give Dhaka more sway, the person said.

Bangladesh retired Brig Gen Md Manzur Qader, who has visited the camps, told Reuters his country's government should back the Rohingya in their armed struggle, which he said would push the junta and Arakan Army to negotiate and facilitate the Rohingya's return.

Under the previous Bangladesh government, some intelligence officials supported armed groups but with little coordination because there was no overall directive, Qader said.

Near the camps in Cox's Bazar, where many roads are monitored by security checkpoints, dozens of Rohingya were taken earlier this year by Bangladesh officials to a jetty overlooking Maungdaw and sent across the border by boat, said Abu Afna, who was part of the group.

“It’s your country, you go and take it back,” he recalled one official telling them.

Reuters was unable to independently verify his account.

‘WE LIVE IN FEAR’

In Rakhine state, insurgents struggled to push back the heavily-armed and better drilled Arakan Army. But the battle for Maungdaw has stretched on for six months and Rohingya fighters said tactics including ambushes have slowed the rebel offensive.

"The Arakan Army thought they would have a sweeping victory very soon," said a Bangladesh official with knowledge of the situation. "Maungdaw has proven them wrong because of the participation of the Rohingya."

Bangladesh attempted to broker talks between Rohingya and the Arakan Army early this year, but the discussions quickly collapsed, according to Qader and another person familiar with the matter.

Dhaka is increasingly frustrated by the Arakan Army's strategy of attacking Rohingya settlements, the two people said, with the violence complicating efforts to repatriate refugees to Rakhine.

The Arakan Army has denied targeting Rohingya settlements and said it helps civilians without discriminating on the basis of religion.

Back in Cox's Bazar, there is turmoil in the camps, where RSO and ARSA are jostling for influence. Fighting and shootings are common, terrifying residents and disrupting humanitarian efforts.

John Quinley, director at human rights group Fortify Rights, said violence was at the highest levels since the camps were established in 2017. Armed groups have killed at least 60 people this year, while abducting and torturing opponents and using "threats and harassment to try to silence their critics," according to a forthcoming Fortify report.

Wendy McCance, director of the Norwegian Refugee Council in Bangladesh, warned that international funding for the camp would run out within 10 years and called for refugees to be given "livelihood opportunities" to avert a "massive vacuum where people, especially young men, are being drawn into organised groups to have an income."

Sharit Ullah, a Rohingya man who escaped from Maungdaw with his wife and four children in May, described struggling to secure regular food rations.

The one-time rice and shrimp farmer said his biggest worry is the safety of his family amid spiraling violence.

"We have nothing here," he said, over the shrieks of children playing in the squalid alleyways running like filigree through the camps.

"We live in fear."



