Category: https://bdnews24.com/business

Title: Oil prices fall on demand concerns, strong dollar

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT

The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County, Texas, US November 24, 2019. REUTERS

Oil prices fell in early trading on Friday on worries about demand growth in 2025, especially in top crude importer China, putting global oil benchmarks on track to end the week down more than 2%.

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell 26 cents, or 0.26%, to $69.12 per barrel.

Chinese state-owned refiner Sinopec said in its annual energy outlook, released on Thursday, that China's imports could peak as soon as 2025 and the country's oil consumption would peak by 2027 as diesel and gasoline demand weaken.

The dollar's climb to a two-year high also weighed on oil prices, after the Federal Reserve flagged it would be cautious about cutting interest rates in 2025.

A stronger dollar makes oil more expensive for holders of other currencies, while a slower pace of rate cuts could dampen economic growth and trim oil demand.

In a move that could pare supply, G7 countries are considering ways to tighten the price cap on Russian oil, such as with an outright ban or by lowering the price threshold, Bloomberg reported on Thursday. Russia has evaded the $60 per barrel cap imposed in 2022 using its "shadow fleet" of ships, which the EU and Britain have targeted with further sanctions in recent days.



Title: FedEx to spin off its freight trucking business

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation

A driver of FedEx stands with packages near a delivery truck during Black Friday preparations in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, US, November 26, 2024. REUTERS

FedEx announced the much-anticipated spinoff of its freight trucking division on Thursday, as it restructures operations to focus on its core delivery business.

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation.

Analysts believe the spinoff could unlock up to $20 billion in shareholder value, while clearing the way for FedEx management to zero in on merging operations of its separate Express and Ground units to boost profits. They say FedEx Freight assets were not fully appreciated within FedEx and that spinning off the trucking business as a publicly-held entity will provide an opportunity to expand and improve its operations.

Freight is one of FedEx's most profitable businesses, said Edward Jones analyst Faisal Hersi. The company trades at a relative discount to its publicly held trucking rivals like XPO and Old Dominion, meaning that making it an independent company will create value for investors, he said.

"We are encouraged that the company listened to shareholder feedback and is pursuing this route," Stephens analyst Daniel Imbro said of the spinoff.

FedEx Freight is the largest US provider of less-than-truckload services, which involve carrying multiple shipments from different customers on a single truck; the shipments are then routed through a network of service centers where they get transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. The unit's revenue fell 11% to $2.17 billion during the fiscal second quarter ended Nov 30.

Executives said FedEx Freight lost some cost-conscious customers that it had picked up after the bankruptcy of rival Yellow Corp and that the business appeared to have bottomed during the most recent quarter.

The after-hours rally in FedEx shares came despite its warning that 2025 revenue could be held back by a stubbornly challenging environment, with demand for its fastest and most lucrative deliveries from business customers remaining weak.

As a result, Memphis-based FedEx lowered its profit outlook for the full year ending May 2025, calling for adjusted profit of $19 to $20 per share. In September, FedEx cut the top end of its full-year adjusted operating income to between $20 and $21 per share from its previous range of $20 to $22 per share.

FedEx second-quarter adjusted profit fell to $0.99 billion, or $4.05 per share, from $1.01 billion, or $3.99 per share, a year earlier. Nevertheless, the result from the latest quarter topped analysts' average call for earnings of $3.90 per share, according to LSEG.

FedEx Freight turned in lower-than-expected revenue and profit during the latest quarter, due to continued weakness in the US industrial segment that includes manufacturing, metals and chemicals. That was mostly offset by ongoing cost-cutting at the company, which is slashing overhead and working to improve efficiency.

The Express unit's adjusted results improved during the quarter, helped by expense reductions and more international export volume, FedEx said. That was partly offset by higher wage and lease rates, weak US package delivery demand and the expiration of the US Postal Service contract for air transportation services on Sept 29, 2024.

FedEx again warned that the loss of USPS, its largest customer, would create a $500 million headwind in the current fiscal year.

The company and rivals like United Parcel Service are in the throes of the US holiday shipping season, when daily volumes can double.

Thanksgiving fell later than normal this year, shortening the time the companies have to deliver gifts to shoppers and inventory to retailers.

December volumes so far are ahead of FedEx's forecasts and picked up right after Cyber Monday - the first work day after Thanksgiving, when many people make online purchases.

Carriers are still shouldered with excess capacity from the early COVID shipping boom, so experts say most holiday gifts should be delivered on time.



Title: Global central banks urge caution before Trump arrival

Uncertainty grows as Trump rejects funding bill

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, December 16, 2024. REUTERS

The imminent arrival of Donald Trump in the White House was already shaping global economic policy-making this week as the US Federal Reserve flagged fewer rate cuts and other leading central banks signalled caution over their rate paths.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday but accompanied the move with a message that the incoming Trump administration gave cause for caution - a sentiment echoed by its counterparts in London, Tokyo, Frankfurt and elsewhere.

As Fed officials dialed back projections for future easing in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and start to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said of higher estimates for both growth and inflation in 2025.

Powell's repeated urging of caution around further rate cuts triggered a slide in stock prices. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

As expected, the Bank of England kept its main interest rate unchanged at 4.75% on Thursday and said it needed to stick to its existing gradual approach to cutting rates.

"With the heightened uncertainty in the economy we can't commit to when or by how much we will cut rates in the coming year," BoE Governor Andrew Bailey said.

Earlier in Asia, the Bank of Japan kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"There's uncertainty over the policies of the incoming US administration, so we need to scrutinise the impact more carefully," BOJ Governor Kazuo Ueda told a press conference, adding that Trump trade and fiscal policies would have a huge impact on the global economy and financial markets.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment.

Norway's central bank held its policy interest rate unchanged at a 16-year high of 4.50% and highlighted the risk of a trade war between the United States and China.

"Higher tariffs will likely dampen global growth, but the implications for price prospects in Norway are uncertain," the bank said.

Sweden's central bank cut its key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.50% as expected, but said it now saw reasons to be more cautious about cutting rates in early 2025.

In central Europe, the Czech National Bank paused its year-long rate-cutting campaign as expected, with lingering inflation pressures, especially for services, keeping it cautious.

UPHEAVAL

The US economy was thrown into further uncertainty after Trump pressured fellow Republicans in Congress to reject a bill to keep the government funded past the deadline of midnight on Friday and demanded lawmakers raise the nation's debt ceiling.

In the past week, the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada had already lowered interest rates. Both are seen easing further in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said that the Fed had no legal authority to hold it and no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: Bangladesh ready to push startups, business initiatives for youth, says CA Yunus

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor says

The D-8 governments can convene candid, result-oriented conversations involving youth communities on startups, business and finance to carve out new platforms amongst them and Bangladesh is ready to take such initiatives forward, says Muhammad Yunus, chief advisor to the interim government.

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor said as he addressed the 11th Summit of the D-8 Countries in Egypt’s Cairo on Thursday.

The D-8 members met at a time when the world was witnessing unprecedented challenges, Yunus said.

“Yet, so many opportunities beckon us as well.”

He said the theme of the summit, focusing on youth and the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), aptly resonated with shared aspirations. He also congratulated President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt on his election.

Youth today are quickly embracing technology and innovation in everything, he said.

Often, they show uncanny imagination in tacking intractable climatic stress on-the-field, the chief advisor said.

He noted that agriculture and food were changing, economies were secured and wealth was created within societies with little outside inputs.

“I see how amazingly capable and competitive the SMEs are,” he said. “In the D-8 countries, collectively we possess enough wealth, even in private philanthropy, to stand by these scores of SMEs. With our modest support, we can shape a virtuous ‘cycle of good’, for them and our people. We need to let money flow to them, through de-risking finance, for instance.”

The D-8 countries have to re-invent ‘learning’ to make room for their boys and girls to become leaders of the economy, Yunus said.

The countries had great heritage, wisdom and accomplishments which could be blended and built using that foundation, he noted.

“We are yet to take fuller advantage of the digital revolution that has been with us for years. Now that AI is here, let us think if we can leapfrog and catch up with the disruptions, to the advantage of our entrepreneurial boys and girls,” Yunus said.

As a way forward, the chief advisor proposed two specific courses of action

Firstly, to build and deepen functional, impact-driven connections between the D-8 countries’ universities and equivalent knowledge institutions, particularly focused on preparing boys and girls for an entrepreneurial purpose other than its own sake.

“Our aim should be to generate knowledge output that can produce global secure business and industry from leaders of D8 countries in the fiercely competitive global marketplace, with our niche. If this asks to re-look at the D-8 trade and investment frameworks afresh, we should do so,” the chief advisor said.

Secondly, to think of a cooperative learning agenda that can complement the national undertakings now that basic AI-based tools and applications are accessible, he said.

For years, the D-8 countries tried to impart basic education and skills to millions in their countries through conventional in-person institutional architecture, which was often an increasingly daunting task.

“To reach ‘scale’, we tried through distance learning, for instance. We need to think deeper as to how to skill millions of young adults in a workplace where right attitudes – values – ethics matter as much as hard skills. And, then we also confront the challenge to re-skill many millions at different vocational streams, on a continuous basis,” the chief advisor said.



Title: Adani, under bribery scrutiny, pressed by Bangladesh to reopen power deal

The interim government accuses Adani Power of withholding tax benefits central to the deal

FILE PHOTO: The logo of the Adani Group is seen on the facade of one of its buildings on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, Apr 13, 2021. REUTERS/Amit Dave/File Photo/File Photo

Bangladesh's interim government has accused energy supplier Adani Power of breaching a multi-billion-dollar agreement by withholding tax benefits that a power plant central to the deal received from New Delhi, according to documents seen by Reuters.

In 2017, the Indian company controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani signed an agreement with Bangladesh to provide power from its coal-fired plant in eastern India. Dhaka has said it hopes to renegotiate the deal, which was awarded by then-Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina without a tender process and costs Bangladesh far more than its other coal power deals, according to Bangladesh power agency documents and letters between the two parties reviewed by Reuters, as well as interviews with six Bangladesh officials.

Dhaka has been behind on payments to Adani Power since supply started in July 2023. It owes several hundred million dollars for energy that has already been supplied, though the two sides dispute the exact size of the bill.

Bangladesh's de facto power minister Muhammad Fouzul Kabir Khan told Reuters the country now had enough domestic capacity to cope without the Adani supply, though not all domestic power generators were operational.

Nobel peace prize laureate Muhammad Yunus took power in August after a student-led revolution ousted Hasina, who critics accuse of stifling democracy and mismanaging the economy. She ran Bangladesh for most of the last two decades and was a close ally of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Reuters is reporting for the first time that the contract came with an additional implementation agreement that addressed the transfer of tax benefits. The news agency is also revealing details about Bangladesh's plan to reopen the 25-year deal, and that it hopes to use the fallout from U.S. prosecutors' November indictment of Adani and seven other executives for their alleged role in a $265 million bribery scheme to press for a resolution.

Adani Power has not been accused of wrongdoing in Bangladesh. A company spokesperson said in response to Reuters' questions that it had upheld all contractual obligations and had no indication Dhaka was reviewing the contract. The company did not answer questions about the tax benefits and other issues raised by Bangladesh.

Adani Group has called the US allegations "baseless."

TAX EXEMPTIONS

Adani Power's Godda plant runs off imported coal and was built to serve Bangladesh.

The company said the Bangladesh deal helped further Indian foreign policy objectives and Delhi in 2019 declared the plant part of a special economic zone. It enjoys incentives such as exemptions on income tax and other levies.

The power supplier was required to inform Bangladesh swiftly of changes in the plant's tax status and to pass on the "benefit of a tax exemption" from India's government, according to the contract and implementation agreement signed on Nov. 5, 2017 between Adani Power and the state-run Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB).

But Adani Power did not do so, according to letters sent by BPDB on Sept 17, 2024 and Oct 22, 2024 that urged it to remit the benefits.

The agreements and letters are not public but were seen by Reuters.

Two BPDB officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to talk to the media, said they did not receive responses.

BPDB estimates savings of roughly 0.35 cents per unit of power if the benefit was passed on, the officials said. The Godda plant supplied 8.16 billion units in the year to June 30, 2024, according to an undated Bangladesh government summary of power purchases seen by Reuters, suggesting potential savings of about $28.6 million.

Power minister Khan said the savings would be a key part of future discussions with Adani Power.

'NEGOTIATED HASTILY'

Bangladesh in November scrapped a 2010 law that allowed Hasina to award some energy deals without a competitive bidding process.

The absence of tenders is unusual, said Tim Buckley, director of Australia's Climate Energy Finance think-tank, adding that auctions ensure "the best price possible."

In September, Yunus's government appointed a panel of experts to examine major energy deals signed by Hasina. A Bangladesh court has separately ordered a probe of the Adani deal.

Another panel asked to study the economy said in a white paper submitted to Yunus on Dec 1 that the US charges against Adani meant Bangladesh should "scrutinise" the power deal, which it described as "negotiated hastily."

Hasina, who has not been seen in public since she fled to India, could not be reached. Her son and adviser Sajeeb Wazed told Reuters he was not aware of the Adani Power deal but that he was "sure there was no corruption."

"I can only assume the Indian government lobbied for this deal so it was made," he said in response to allegations of political interference.

Modi's office and other Indian officials did not respond to requests for comment.

HARDBALL

On Oct 31, Adani Power halved the power supply from Godda in response to the payment dispute with Bangladesh.

The company in a Jul 1 letter seen by Reuters also rejected a request from BPDB to extend a discount it had offered until May - resulting in savings of about $13 million for Bangladesh. It said it would not consider further discounts until payment was cleared.

Adani Power contends it is owed $900 million, while BPDB says arrears are about $650 million. Bangladesh suffers from a dollar shortage and BPBD officials told Reuters they haven't been able to obtain sufficient foreign currency for payment.

The halving of supply particularly angered Bangladesh, BPDB Chair Md Rezaul Karim said, because it came after Dhaka in October remitted $97 million to Adani Power - its highest monthly payment this year.

The dispute revolves around how power tariffs are calculated, with the 2017 agreement pricing off an average of two indices.

The unit cost of energy from Godda was 55% above the average of all Indian power sold to Dhaka, according to the summary of Bangladesh's power purchases.

Bangladesh is pressing for Adani Power to use other benchmarks that would lower the tariff after one of the indices was revised last year, said three BPDB sources.

Adani Power has rejected that, one of them said, adding the two sides were meeting soon.

The agreements stipulate that arbitration be carried out in Singapore, but Khan said Bangladesh's next move depended on the outcome of the court-ordered investigation.

"If it is proven that bribery or irregularities had happened, then we will have to follow the court order if any cancellation happens," he said.



Title: Stocks dive after Fed cuts rates, signals slower easing pace in 2025

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025

Traders work on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, US, December 10, 2024. REUTERS

US stocks plunged on Wednesday, with all three major indexes posting their biggest daily decline in months, after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point but disappointed some investors with projections that signaled a more cautious path of easing next year.

The Fed cut rates by 25 basis points to the 4.25%-4.50% range and its summary of economic projections (SEP) indicated it will make rate cuts totaling a half percentage point by the end of 2025 given the solid labour market and the recent stall in lowering inflation.

"If you look at the changes to the statement of economic projection, they really had no choice," said Ellen Hazen, chief market strategist at FL Putnam Investment Management in Wellesley, Massachusetts.

"So as you look at all the changes that they made, it's very clear that the economy is running a lot hotter than their previous projection. And that has got to contribute to their desire to potentially pause."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1,123.03 points, or 2.58%, to 42,326.87, the S&P 500 lost 178.45 points, or 2.95%, to 5,872.16 and the Nasdaq Composite lost 716.37 points, or 3.56%, to 19,392.69.

The Dow suffered its 10th straight session of declines, its longest streak of daily losses since an 11-session skid in October 1974.

The Dow and S&P saw their biggest one-day percentage decline since Aug. 5 and the Nasdaq saw its biggest daily decline since July 24.

The small cap Russell 2000 dropped 4.4%, its biggest drop since June 16, 2022. Small cap stocks are seen as more likely to benefit from a lower interest rate environment.

Despite the declines, the Dow is up nearly 12.3% on the year, while the S&P has rallied about 23% and the Nasdaq has shot up more than 29%, lifted largely by technology companies and enthusiasm around artificial intelligence, along with prospects of a lower rate environment and more recently, the hope of deregulation policies from President-elect Donald Trump's incoming administration.

However, investors are also wary that some of Trump's expected policies, such as tariffs, could rekindle higher inflation.

The CBOE Volatility Index - an options-based gauge of investor expectations for near-term stock market gyrations - jumped 11.75 points to close at a four-month high of 27.62.

US Treasury yields moved higher after the statement as the benchmark US 10-year note touched its highest level since May 31 at 4.518%.

"You've got the 10-year creeping back up, around that 4.5% and particularly the 5% level that's been a real problem for equity markets," said Ross Mayfield, investment strategist at Baird in Louisville, Kentucky.

"Probably the most obvious headwind or point of contention for markets in the first quarter of next year is whether the markets interpret the policies on the table as inflationary and, or, pro-growth, both things are embedded in the 10-year."

Markets were pricing in expectations the Fed will hold rates steady at its January meeting, while factoring in about 33 basis points (bps) in cuts for 2025, down from 49 bps immediately after the Fed statement.

Higher interest rates are usually seen as a drag to the equity market, boosting the appeal of less risky assets while crimping the ability of companies to grow earnings.

Each of the 11 major S&P 500 sectors were lower, with real estate, down 4%, and consumer discretionary leading declines, off 4.7%.

Cryptocurrency related stocks fell, with losses accelerating after Powell said the central bank is not allowed to own bitcoin and is not seeking a law change in order to do so. There has been speculation Trump's incoming administration might seek to build a government owned stock of the asset. Microstrategy tumbled 9.5%, MARA Holdings plunged 12.2% and Riot Platforms fell 14.5%.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 9.489-to-1 ratio on the NYSE, and by a 5.46-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.

The S&P 500 posted six new 52-week highs and 27 new lows, while the Nasdaq Composite recorded 80 new highs and 264 new lows.

Volume on US exchanges was 18.59 billion shares, compared with the 14.36 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days.



Title: Business influence on soybean oil prices leaves finance advisor helpless

He calls market conditions complex and difficult to control

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has come to realise just how powerful businesses are as he deals with the soybean oil market.

Referring to the insufficient supply of soybean oil in the market despite price increases, he said the market realities are "quite complex" and breaking them is "quite challenging".

A week ago, the price of soybean oil was raised by Tk 8 per litre, bringing the price to Tk 175.

However, there have been continued reports of insufficient supply despite the price increase.

"The problem is that there's a gap between our price determination and the actual market reality. For instance, when the price went up by Tk 8, there was plenty of supply the following day. After the price hike, businesses have expectations that further increases will follow," the advisor told journalists after a meeting of the Advisors Council Committee on Government Purchase at the Secretariat on Wednesday.

He also pointed out the limitations of market monitoring, saying it is impractical for the National Consumer Rights Protection Directorate to monitor every location, citing his visit to Pabna where the situation remained the same.

Salehuddin stressed that if the public becomes more aware and reports complaints, proper action will be taken.

"If anyone charges excessively, consumers should speak out," he said.

Salehuddin added, "People here have a higher tolerance and just buy the goods. But consumers abroad are much more aware and protest when prices rise. I am not asking for protests, but at least for everyone to speak up.”

When asked about the strength of business syndicates, the finance advisor said: “Definitely. It’s not just syndicates; the businesses involved are very powerful. There are large traders, medium-sized ones, and those who import directly and supply goods, as well as those who act as agents, only supplying goods or issuing DOs [Delivery Orders].”

“It’s a complex system, and breaking it is difficult.”

When asked why raids were limited to the retail sector and not extended to wholesalers and mills, the finance advisor explained: “Raiding everywhere at once could worsen the artificial crisis. We aim to balance the market by ensuring businesses can operate while preventing excessive profiteering. At the same time, we want producers to receive fair prices for their costs. Achieving this balance will take time.”



Title: Eastern Bank honours 30 partners at Digital Excellence Summit 2024

The event celebrates the contributions of key partners to the bank’s digital journey

Eastern Bank hounors 30 partners at EBL Digital Excellence Summit 2024 held at BICC on 17 Dec 17, 2024.

Eastern Bank Limited, or EBL, has recognised 30 partner companies for their remarkable contributions to the development of its digital services and solutions.

The awards were presented under three categories—Partners in Progress, Excellence in Business, and Enablers of Excellence—during a gala ceremony at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre, or BICC, in Dhaka on Dec 17.

The ceremony brought together key partners, merchants, and industry leaders to celebrate collective achievements in digital transformation.

The bank’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Ali Reza Iftekhar highlighted the importance of collaboration, saying: “This award reflects our strong commitment to collaboration, innovation, and excellence.”

“Together, we are setting new standards in the digital financial services landscape and paving the way for a more inclusive and prosperous future for Bangladesh.”

M Khorshed Anowar, deputy managing director and head of Retail and SME Banking at EBL, delivered the keynote speech on "Current Scenario of Digital Inclusion in Bangladesh and Future Prospects of Digital Payments."

Ahsan Ullah Chowdhury, head of Digital Financial Services at EBL, offered a vote of thanks.



Title: India's gold imports to plunge in December after record November

Lower imports by India, the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, could cap a rally in global prices that hit a record high in October

Gold rings are seen at a jewellery shop in the old quarters of Delhi, India, May 24, 2023. REUTERS

India's gold imports are poised for a sharp slowdown in December following record purchases in November, in the absence of any major festival and as rebounding prices prompt buyers to delay purchases, trade and government officials said.

Lower imports by India, the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, could cap a rally in global prices that hit a record high in October. The drop in imports could also help India narrow its trade deficit and support the ailing rupee.

"Last month, imports shot up thanks to strong demand for investment and jewellery," Prithviraj Kothari, president of the India Bullion and Jewellers Association (IBJA), said.

"But now, things are cooling off, and imports are slowing down. We might see a drop of over 50% in December."

Gold imports more than doubled in November compared to the previous month, reaching a record $14.8 billion, which widened the trade deficit to a record level and pushed the rupee to an all-time low.

Many potential buyers had been waiting for gold prices to drop and rushed to make purchases as soon as prices corrected in November, said a Mumbai-based dealer with a private bullion importing bank.

Local prices declined to 73,300 rupees ($863) per 10 grams in mid-November after hitting a record high of 79,775 rupees in October.

Prices have rebounded in December, which is discouraging buyers and will likely lead to imports falling sharply to around $5 billion, the dealer said.

"So far this month, we have received fewer gold consignments for clearing compared to last month," said a customs official, who declined to be named.

Weak demand prompted Indian dealers this week to offer a discount of up to $8 an ounce over official domestic prices – inclusive of 6% import and 3% sales levies. Last month, they were charging a premium of up to $16.

In November, investment demand was robust as bullion was offering better returns than the stock market, IBJA's Kothari said.

India's NSE Nifty 50 share index fell to 23,263.15 points in November, down 11% from a record high hit on Sept 27.

Gold imports in November were also driven by festive season demand, as jewellers aimed to replenish stocks following the festivals of Dussehra and Diwali, said Amit Modak, chief executive of PN Gadgil & Sons, a jeweller.

……

Caption:

Keywords:



Title: Adani deal under bribery scrutiny was approved against officials' advice

US prosecutors allege that defendants bribed Andhra official $228 million for Adani deal

Rotors of power-generating windmill turbines of Adani Green Energy are kept for transportation in a stockyard at Ahmedabad-Narayan Sarovar state highway near Nakhatrana village in the western state of Gujarat, India, Nov 29, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

The approach from the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) on Sept 15, 2021 came out of the blue. The federal agency, tasked with developing the solar sector, wanted to know if the southeastern state of Andhra Pradesh would like to sign India's largest renewables contract.

Two years earlier, Andhra Pradesh's energy regulator had said in a 10-year forecast the state had no short-term need for solar power, and should focus on other renewables that could provide 24-hour energy.

But just a day after SECI approached the state government, the 26-member state cabinet led by Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy gave the deal its preliminary approval, according to cabinet records seen by Reuters.

While SECI's Sept 15 letter did not name the energy supplier, it was publicly known at the time that the federal agency had only contracted with two suppliers, the larger of which was controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani, according to past statements from the two companies.

By Nov 11, the state government had secured the nod from the energy regulator. On Dec 1, state authorities signed a procurement agreement with SECI for the deal, which could eventually be worth over $490 million annually.

As much as 97 percent of that will go to Adani Green, the renewables unit of the billionaire's Adani Group conglomerate, according to documents related to the agreement, reviewed by Reuters.

The news agency spoke to a former state power regulator and an energy legal expert who said the 57 days between SECI's approach to the state government and regulatory approval from the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) for the 7,000 megawatt deal was unusually fast, although timeframes for such deals can vary.

The solar deal is now under scrutiny by US prosecutors, who indicted Adani and seven other executives in November for alleged involvement in a bribery and securities fraud scheme involving several Indian states and one territory.

US prosecutors allege that $228 million was offered to an unnamed Andhra Pradesh official by the defendants to direct the state's electricity distribution companies to purchase the solar power supplied to SECI by Adani Green.

Reuters reviewed 19 state government documents, many of them previously unreported, and interviewed more than two dozen state and federal officials about the deal, as well as independent energy and legal professionals. Most of the people spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter.

Together they provide a picture of how political leaders overruled advice from finance and energy officials in order to approve the massive Adani deal. Some officials have publicly described the contract as likely to strain the state's coffers, potentially leaving taxpayers on the hook for thousands of megawatts of energy that Andhra Pradesh does not need.

Adani Green did not respond to Reuters' questions about the alleged corruption nor the speed of the approval process. Adani Group has previously called the allegations "baseless."

SECI told Reuters in a statement it was up to states and their regulators to decide how much power to purchase. It declined to answer other questions.

The office of Reddy, who was not named in the US indictment and lost power in an election this year, referred Reuters to a Nov 28 statement in which he denied being bribed and justified the deal on grounds it provided free power to farmers. Reddy's office declined to answer other questions.

APERC, which regulates the state's power sector and was responsible for due diligence on the deal, did not respond to repeated requests for comment on its processes and the US allegations.

The current state government also did not respond to requests for comment.

DUE DILIGENCE

For most of Sept 15, 2021 then-energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy was unaware of any potential solar deal, he told Reuters.

But late that night, he received a call from a person in his office, whom he did not identify, about a proposal that required his signature for discussion in cabinet the next day, said Srinivasa Reddy, who joined a rival party this year.

"Never before" had he been so rushed to approve files, he said, and he was not given "details or time to study the matter."

Srinivasa Reddy said he signed off after being assured by a senior official at his department, whom he also did not identify, that the contracting party was SECI. He said he had "no idea the supplier was Adani."

Srikant Nagulapalli, who declined to comment, was then the top civil servant in Srinivasa Reddy's department. Reuters could not establish if Reddy consulted him or if he provided assurances about the deal.

The next day, cabinet approved the deal "in principle," according to minutes from the cabinet meeting, allowing the regulatory process to be fast-tracked.

On Oct 21, the Andhra Pradesh Power Coordination Committee (APPCC) - which had been tasked with studying the deal after the preliminary approval - filed a report recommending the deal.

The committee was established by the state government to coordinate between state-owned distribution companies; its members include the state's top energy official and company executives.

Seven days later, the Andhra Pradesh cabinet officially committed to procuring 7,000 megawatts from SECI.

In doing so, it overrode advice from officials at the finance and energy departments that the contract did not represent good value.

On Oct 28 - the same day as the cabinet meeting that approved the deal but before the greenlight was given - the finance department made a submission to the cabinet stating there was an industry trend of falling solar prices and that future agreements would likely be cheaper, according to cabinet minutes.

It said Andhra Pradesh had leverage because the government was the buyer, offering the supplier security that a default would be unlikely.

The treasury also questioned the duration of the 25-year contract, especially since supply was scheduled to start only in 2024, according to the minutes. The treasury said it believed costs could continue to fall in the period between agreeing the contract and power being supplied.

The energy department endorsed the treasury's advice.

The records of the cabinet deliberations do not document any discussion about the finance and energy departments' concerns beyond a statement in the minutes that the cabinet was "duly overruling the finance remark."

Andhra Pradesh will pay 2.49 rupees per kilowatt-hour when the solar power comes online, according to the agreement.

An Adani Green spokesperson told Reuters that supply would be delayed beyond 2024, citing delays in "grid availability."

However, an analysis released by the office of Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu - who ousted Reddy's government in elections this year - found the state would likely have to pay more, because the contract did not account for certain taxes and duties that are typically included in such calculations.

A state official familiar with the matter said Andhra Pradesh is likely to pay as much as 23 percent over the price it agreed in the Adani contract once the taxes and duties are included.

Andhra Pradesh is now seeking to suspend the deal due to the indictment of Gautam Adani. A decision could come by year-end, an official told Reuters.

If the Adani deal goes ahead, the state treasury will be directly on the hook for solar bills running hundreds of millions of dollars annually, according to Reuters' review of contract documents. Annual payments to Adani once the power supply is fully operational will be roughly equal to state spending on social security and nutrition programmes for the previous fiscal year.



Title: India's economy ends 2024 with solid momentum as business growth hits four-month high

Asia's third-largest economy grew a softer 5.4% last quarter, but easing inflation is expected to spur demand among private sector firms

Employees assemble an electric transformer inside a manufacturing unit of Inductotherm (India) Private Limited at Sanand GIDC (Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation), on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, India, March 28, 2024. REUTERS

India's private sector output grew at the fastest pace in four months, preliminary readings from a survey showed, helping the economy end 2024 on a positive note underpinned by sturdier demand in services and manufacturing and record jobs growth.

Asia's third-largest economy grew a softer 5.4% last quarter, but easing inflation is expected to spur demand among private sector firms, improving the outlook for next year.

Monday's HSBC's December flash India Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), compiled by S&P Global, rose to 60.7 this month - matching August's reading - after dropping to 58.6 in November.

The 50-level separates growth from contraction and the business activity index has been above 60 in all but three months this year. Such strength hasn't been seen since 2008 when the global financial crisis hit, suggesting strong private sector expansion.

"The small rise in the headline manufacturing PMI in December was mainly driven by gains in current production, new orders and employment," said Ines Lam, economist at HSBC.

"The expansion in new domestic orders quickened, suggesting a pick-up in growth momentum in the economy."

A stronger rise in demand was mainly reflected in the PMI for the dominant services sector, which rose to a four-month high of 60.8 from 58.4 in November, while the index for manufacturing was 57.4, up from 56.5 last month.

Service providers led the rise in sales with the new business sub-index touching the highest since January. Improving international demand for goods and services also boosted sales with the former recording a faster increase than the latter.

That improved the business outlook for 2025 and overall optimism rose to its highest since September last year and prompted companies to ramp up hiring additional staff at the fastest pace since the survey began in late 2005.

Both manufacturing and services posted a new peak for employment generation.

Inflationary pressures eased in December after two consecutive months of steeper rises. However, firms again increased selling prices albeit at a slower pace than November's near 12-year high.

That will provide some relief to newly appointed Reserve Bank of India Governor Sanjay Malhotra after consumer inflation came in lower than expected at 5.48% last month with economists betting on a rate cut in February 2025, a Reuters poll found.



Title: Trump transition team plans sweeping rollback of Biden EV, emissions policies

The proposals aim to boost US production and redirect funds to national defence

EVgo fast electric vehicle chargers are shown charging a Chevy Bolt in Encintas, California, US,October 17, 2023. REUTERS

Incoming US President Donald Trump’s transition team is recommending sweeping changes to cut off support for electric vehicles and charging stations and to strengthen measures blocking cars, components and battery materials from China, according to a document seen by Reuters.

The recommendations, which have not been previously reported, come as the U.S. electric-vehicle transition stalls and China’s heavily subsidized EV industry continues to surge, in part because of its superior battery supply chain. On the campaign trail, Trump vowed to ease regulations on fossil-fuel cars and roll back what he called President Joe Biden’s EV mandate.

The transition team also recommends imposing tariffs on all battery materials globally, a bid to boost U.S. production, and then negotiating individual exemptions with allies, the document shows.

Taken together, the recommendations are a stark departure from Biden administration policy, which sought to balance encouraging a domestic battery supply chain, separate from China, with a rapid EV transition. The transition-team plan would redirect money now flowing to building charging stations and making EVs affordable into national-defence priorities, including securing China-free supplies of batteries and the critical minerals to build them.

The proposals came from a Trump transition team charged with crafting a strategy for swift implementation of new automotive policies. The team also calls for eliminating the Biden administration’s $7,500 tax credit for consumer EV purchases, a plan that Reuters first reported last month. The policies could strike a blow to US EV sales and production at a time when many legacy automakers, including General Motors and Hyundai, have recently introduced a wider array of electric offerings to the US market.

Cutting government EV support could also hurt sales of Elon Musk’s Tesla, the dominant US EV seller. But Musk, who spent more than a quarter-billion dollars helping to elect Trump, has said that losing subsidies would hurt rivals more than Tesla.

The transition team calls for clawing back whatever funds remain from Biden’s $7.5 billion plan to build charging stations and shifting the money to battery-minerals processing and the "national defence supply chain and critical infrastructure.”

While batteries, minerals and other EV components are “critical to defense production,” electric vehicles “and charging stations are not,” the document says.

The Defense Department in recent years has highlighted US strategic vulnerabilities because of China’s dominance of the mining and refining of critical minerals, including graphite and lithium needed for batteries, and rare-earth metals used in both EV motors and military aircraft.

A 2021 government report said the US military faces “escalating power requirements” for weapons and communication equipment, among other technologies. “Assured sources of critical minerals and materials” are “critical to US national security,” the report found.

Trump transition spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said voters gave Trump a mandate to deliver on campaign promises, including stopping government attacks on gas-powered cars.

"When he takes office, President Trump will support the auto industry, allowing space for both gas-powered cars and electric vehicles," Leavitt said in a statement.

ALLOWING MORE TAILPIPE POLLUTION

Automakers globally have been shifting toward electric vehicles in part to comply with stricter government limits on climate-damaging tailpipe pollution.

But the transition team recommendations would allow automakers to produce more gas-powered vehicles by rolling back emissions and fuel-economy standards championed by the Biden administration. The transition team proposes shifting those regulations back to 2019 levels, which would allow an average of about 25% more emissions per vehicle mile than the current 2025 limits and average fuel economy to be about 15% lower.

The proposal also recommends blocking California from setting its own, stricter vehicle-emissions standards, which more than a dozen other states have adopted. Trump barred California from setting tougher requirements during his first term, a policy that Biden reversed.

California has asked the US Environmental Protection Agency for another waiver to incorporate a stronger set of requirements beginning in 2026, which would eventually require all vehicles to be electric, plug-in hybrid or hydrogen-powered by 2035. The Biden administration’s EPA has not approved California’s request.

Many of the transition-team proposals appear aimed at encouraging domestic battery production, primarily for defense-related interests. Others appear aimed at protecting automakers, even those producing EVs, in the United States.

The proposals include:

– Instituting tariffs on “EV supply chain” imports including batteries, critical minerals and charging components. The proposal viewed by Reuters said the administration should use Section 232 tariffs, which target national security threats, to limit imports of such products.

The Biden administration recently increased tariffs on Chinese imports of several mentioned in the Trump-transition document, including lithium-ion batteries, graphite and “permanent magnets” used in EV motors and military applications. Those tariffs were issued on economic rather than security grounds.

– Waiving environmental reviews to speed up “federally funded EV infrastructure projects,” including battery recycling and production, charging stations and critical mineral manufacturing.

– Expanding export restrictions on EV battery technology to adversarial nations.

– Providing support for exports of US-made EV batteries through the Export-Import Bank of the United States.

– Using tariffs as a “negotiating tool” to open foreign markets to US auto exports, including EVs.

– Eliminating requirements that federal agencies purchase EVs. A Biden policy requires all federal acquisitions of cars and smaller trucks to be zero-emission vehicles by the end of 2027.

– Ending DOD programmes aimed at purchasing or developing electric military vehicles.



Title: TikTok turns to US Supreme Court in last-ditch bid to avert ban

The emergency request is the final legal effort intended to block the law intended to force Chinese company ByteDance to divest from the app by Jan 19

TikTok made a last-ditch effort on Monday to continue operating in the United States, asking the Supreme Court to temporarily block a law intended to force ByteDance, its China-based parent company, to divest the short-video app by Jan. 19 or face a ban.

TikTok and ByteDance filed an emergency request to the justices for an injunction to halt the looming ban on the social media app used by about 170 million Americans while they appeal a lower court's ruling that upheld the law. A group of US users of the app filed a similar request on Monday as well.

Congress passed the law in April. The Justice Department has said that as a Chinese company, TikTok poses "a national-security threat of immense depth and scale" because of its access to vast amounts of data on American users, from locations to private messages, and its ability to secretly manipulate content that Americans view on the app.

The US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Washington on Dec. 6 rejected TikTok's arguments that the law violates free speech protections under the US Constitution's First Amendment.

In their filing to the Supreme Court, TikTok and ByteDance said that "if Americans, duly informed of the alleged risks of 'covert' content manipulation, choose to continue viewing content on TikTok with their eyes wide open, the First Amendment entrusts them with making that choice, free from the government's censorship."

"And if the DC Circuit's contrary holding stands, then Congress will have free rein to ban any American from speaking simply by identifying some risk that the speech is influenced by a foreign entity," they added.

The companies said that being shuttered for even one month would cause TikTok to lose about a third of its US users and undermine its ability to attract advertisers and recruit content creators and employee talent.

Calling itself one of the "most important speech platforms" used in the United States, TikTok has said that there is no imminent threat to US national security and that delaying enforcement of the law would allow the Supreme Court to consider the legality of the ban, and the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump to evaluate the law as well.

Trump, who unsuccessfully tried to ban TikTok during his first term in 2020, has reversed his stance and promised during the presidential race this year that he would try to save TikTok. Trump takes office on Jan. 20, the day after the TikTok deadline under the law.

The law would "shutter one of America's most popular speech platforms the day before a presidential inauguration," the companies said in their filing. "A federal law singling out and banning a speech platform used by half of Americans is extraordinary."

Asked on Monday at a press conference what he would do to stop a ban on TikTok, Trump said that he has "a warm spot in my heart for TikTok" and that he would "take a look" at the matter.

Trump was meeting with TikTok CEO Shou Zi Chew in Florida on Monday, a source familiar with the plans told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity. TikTok did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the meeting.

The companies asked the Supreme Court to issue a decision on its request by Jan. 6 to allow, in the event it is rejected, for the "complex task of shutting down TikTok" in the United States and to coordinate with service providers by the deadline set under the law.

The dispute comes amid growing trade tensions between China and the United States, the world's two biggest economies.

'RIGOROUS SCRUTINY'

TikTok has denied that it has or ever would share US user data, accusing US lawmakers of advancing speculative concerns.

TikTok spokesperson Michael Hughes said after the filing that "we are asking the court to do what it has traditionally done in free speech cases: apply the most rigorous scrutiny to speech bans and conclude that it violates the First Amendment."

In its ruling, the DC Circuit wrote, "The First Amendment exists to protect free speech in the United States. Here the government acted solely to protect that freedom from a foreign adversary nation and to limit that adversary's ability to gather data on people in the United States."

The law would bar providing certain services to TikTok and other foreign adversary-controlled apps including offering it through app stores such as Apple and Alphabet's Google, effectively preventing its continued US use unless ByteDance divests TikTok by the deadline.

A ban could open the door to a future US crackdown on other foreign-owned apps. In 2020, Trump tried to ban WeChat, owned by Chinese company Tencent, but was blocked by the courts.



Title: Bangladesh ready to push startups, business initiatives for youth, says CA Yunus

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor says

The D-8 governments can convene candid, result-oriented conversations involving youth communities on startups, business and finance to carve out new platforms amongst them and Bangladesh is ready to take such initiatives forward, says Muhammad Yunus, chief advisor to the interim government.

Bangladesh is ready to convene the first multi-stakeholders meeting in 2025, the chief advisor said as he addressed the 11th Summit of the D-8 Countries in Egypt’s Cairo on Thursday.

The D-8 members met at a time when the world was witnessing unprecedented challenges, Yunus said.

“Yet, so many opportunities beckon us as well.”

He said the theme of the summit, focusing on youth and the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), aptly resonated with shared aspirations. He also congratulated President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt on his election.

Youth today are quickly embracing technology and innovation in everything, he said.

Often, they show uncanny imagination in tacking intractable climatic stress on-the-field, the chief advisor said.

He noted that agriculture and food were changing, economies were secured and wealth was created within societies with little outside inputs.

“I see how amazingly capable and competitive the SMEs are,” he said. “In the D-8 countries, collectively we possess enough wealth, even in private philanthropy, to stand by these scores of SMEs. With our modest support, we can shape a virtuous ‘cycle of good’, for them and our people. We need to let money flow to them, through de-risking finance, for instance.”

The D-8 countries have to re-invent ‘learning’ to make room for their boys and girls to become leaders of the economy, Yunus said.

The countries had great heritage, wisdom and accomplishments which could be blended and built using that foundation, he noted.

“We are yet to take fuller advantage of the digital revolution that has been with us for years. Now that AI is here, let us think if we can leapfrog and catch up with the disruptions, to the advantage of our entrepreneurial boys and girls,” Yunus said.

As a way forward, the chief advisor proposed two specific courses of action

Firstly, to build and deepen functional, impact-driven connections between the D-8 countries’ universities and equivalent knowledge institutions, particularly focused on preparing boys and girls for an entrepreneurial purpose other than its own sake.

“Our aim should be to generate knowledge output that can produce global secure business and industry from leaders of D8 countries in the fiercely competitive global marketplace, with our niche. If this asks to re-look at the D-8 trade and investment frameworks afresh, we should do so,” the chief advisor said.

Secondly, to think of a cooperative learning agenda that can complement the national undertakings now that basic AI-based tools and applications are accessible, he said.

For years, the D-8 countries tried to impart basic education and skills to millions in their countries through conventional in-person institutional architecture, which was often an increasingly daunting task.

“To reach ‘scale’, we tried through distance learning, for instance. We need to think deeper as to how to skill millions of young adults in a workplace where right attitudes – values – ethics matter as much as hard skills. And, then we also confront the challenge to re-skill many millions at different vocational streams, on a continuous basis,” the chief advisor said.



Title: Oil prices fall on demand concerns, strong dollar

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT

The sun sets behind a crude oil pump jack on a drill pad in the Permian Basin in Loving County, Texas, US November 24, 2019. REUTERS

Oil prices fell in early trading on Friday on worries about demand growth in 2025, especially in top crude importer China, putting global oil benchmarks on track to end the week down more than 2%.

Brent crude futures fell by 31 cents, or 0.43%, to $72.57 a barrel by 0139 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell 26 cents, or 0.26%, to $69.12 per barrel.

Chinese state-owned refiner Sinopec said in its annual energy outlook, released on Thursday, that China's imports could peak as soon as 2025 and the country's oil consumption would peak by 2027 as diesel and gasoline demand weaken.

The dollar's climb to a two-year high also weighed on oil prices, after the Federal Reserve flagged it would be cautious about cutting interest rates in 2025.

A stronger dollar makes oil more expensive for holders of other currencies, while a slower pace of rate cuts could dampen economic growth and trim oil demand.

In a move that could pare supply, G7 countries are considering ways to tighten the price cap on Russian oil, such as with an outright ban or by lowering the price threshold, Bloomberg reported on Thursday. Russia has evaded the $60 per barrel cap imposed in 2022 using its "shadow fleet" of ships, which the EU and Britain have targeted with further sanctions in recent days.



Title: FedEx to spin off its freight trucking business

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation

A driver of FedEx stands with packages near a delivery truck during Black Friday preparations in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, US, November 26, 2024. REUTERS

FedEx announced the much-anticipated spinoff of its freight trucking division on Thursday, as it restructures operations to focus on its core delivery business.

Shares jumped 8% in after-hours trading, adding $5 billion to FedEx's market capitalisation.

Analysts believe the spinoff could unlock up to $20 billion in shareholder value, while clearing the way for FedEx management to zero in on merging operations of its separate Express and Ground units to boost profits. They say FedEx Freight assets were not fully appreciated within FedEx and that spinning off the trucking business as a publicly-held entity will provide an opportunity to expand and improve its operations.

Freight is one of FedEx's most profitable businesses, said Edward Jones analyst Faisal Hersi. The company trades at a relative discount to its publicly held trucking rivals like XPO and Old Dominion, meaning that making it an independent company will create value for investors, he said.

"We are encouraged that the company listened to shareholder feedback and is pursuing this route," Stephens analyst Daniel Imbro said of the spinoff.

FedEx Freight is the largest US provider of less-than-truckload services, which involve carrying multiple shipments from different customers on a single truck; the shipments are then routed through a network of service centers where they get transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. The unit's revenue fell 11% to $2.17 billion during the fiscal second quarter ended Nov 30.

Executives said FedEx Freight lost some cost-conscious customers that it had picked up after the bankruptcy of rival Yellow Corp and that the business appeared to have bottomed during the most recent quarter.

The after-hours rally in FedEx shares came despite its warning that 2025 revenue could be held back by a stubbornly challenging environment, with demand for its fastest and most lucrative deliveries from business customers remaining weak.

As a result, Memphis-based FedEx lowered its profit outlook for the full year ending May 2025, calling for adjusted profit of $19 to $20 per share. In September, FedEx cut the top end of its full-year adjusted operating income to between $20 and $21 per share from its previous range of $20 to $22 per share.

FedEx second-quarter adjusted profit fell to $0.99 billion, or $4.05 per share, from $1.01 billion, or $3.99 per share, a year earlier. Nevertheless, the result from the latest quarter topped analysts' average call for earnings of $3.90 per share, according to LSEG.

FedEx Freight turned in lower-than-expected revenue and profit during the latest quarter, due to continued weakness in the US industrial segment that includes manufacturing, metals and chemicals. That was mostly offset by ongoing cost-cutting at the company, which is slashing overhead and working to improve efficiency.

The Express unit's adjusted results improved during the quarter, helped by expense reductions and more international export volume, FedEx said. That was partly offset by higher wage and lease rates, weak US package delivery demand and the expiration of the US Postal Service contract for air transportation services on Sept 29, 2024.

FedEx again warned that the loss of USPS, its largest customer, would create a $500 million headwind in the current fiscal year.

The company and rivals like United Parcel Service are in the throes of the US holiday shipping season, when daily volumes can double.

Thanksgiving fell later than normal this year, shortening the time the companies have to deliver gifts to shoppers and inventory to retailers.

December volumes so far are ahead of FedEx's forecasts and picked up right after Cyber Monday - the first work day after Thanksgiving, when many people make online purchases.

Carriers are still shouldered with excess capacity from the early COVID shipping boom, so experts say most holiday gifts should be delivered on time.



Title: Global central banks urge caution before Trump arrival

Uncertainty grows as Trump rejects funding bill

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, December 16, 2024. REUTERS

The imminent arrival of Donald Trump in the White House was already shaping global economic policy-making this week as the US Federal Reserve flagged fewer rate cuts and other leading central banks signalled caution over their rate paths.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday but accompanied the move with a message that the incoming Trump administration gave cause for caution - a sentiment echoed by its counterparts in London, Tokyo, Frankfurt and elsewhere.

As Fed officials dialed back projections for future easing in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and start to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said of higher estimates for both growth and inflation in 2025.

Powell's repeated urging of caution around further rate cuts triggered a slide in stock prices. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

As expected, the Bank of England kept its main interest rate unchanged at 4.75% on Thursday and said it needed to stick to its existing gradual approach to cutting rates.

"With the heightened uncertainty in the economy we can't commit to when or by how much we will cut rates in the coming year," BoE Governor Andrew Bailey said.

Earlier in Asia, the Bank of Japan kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"There's uncertainty over the policies of the incoming US administration, so we need to scrutinise the impact more carefully," BOJ Governor Kazuo Ueda told a press conference, adding that Trump trade and fiscal policies would have a huge impact on the global economy and financial markets.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment.

Norway's central bank held its policy interest rate unchanged at a 16-year high of 4.50% and highlighted the risk of a trade war between the United States and China.

"Higher tariffs will likely dampen global growth, but the implications for price prospects in Norway are uncertain," the bank said.

Sweden's central bank cut its key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.50% as expected, but said it now saw reasons to be more cautious about cutting rates in early 2025.

In central Europe, the Czech National Bank paused its year-long rate-cutting campaign as expected, with lingering inflation pressures, especially for services, keeping it cautious.

UPHEAVAL

The US economy was thrown into further uncertainty after Trump pressured fellow Republicans in Congress to reject a bill to keep the government funded past the deadline of midnight on Friday and demanded lawmakers raise the nation's debt ceiling.

In the past week, the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada had already lowered interest rates. Both are seen easing further in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said that the Fed had no legal authority to hold it and no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: Biden's daunting exit list: Gaza ceasefire, Ukraine aid, US Steel

He may pursue a limited security pact with Saudi Arabia, strengthening both against Iran

US President Joe Biden delivers remarks during the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington, DC, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz/File Photo

With a month left in the White House, US President Joe Biden has a long list of foreign and domestic policy actions he hopes to get done before president-elect Donald Trump assumes office, where the Republican is expected to try to reverse much of Biden's record.

Atop Biden's list are final, hurried pushes to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of American hostages abroad, distribute more aid to Ukraine, issue more pardons to non-violent criminals, forgive more student debt, release more funding for semiconductor chip production, and potentially block the sale of US Steel, according to White House aides and an internal memo seen by Reuters.

The list reflects how drawn-out and bloody wars in Europe and the Middle East on Biden's watch hijacked his legacy overseas, where he promised to restore and strengthen American leadership. Simultaneously, Democrats' election failures have shaken his legacy at home.

Biden, 82, promised to remake the US economy as president and clocked significant legislative wins in the first half of his four-year term, including the bipartisan infrastructure and inflation reduction bills.

But major lawmaking essentially ground to a halt after Republicans won the House in the 2022 midterm elections. Some Democrats blame Biden's refusal to step aside as candidate for their colossal defeats this November, most notably Vice President Kamala Harris' loss to Trump in every battleground state.

Securing a ceasefire deal in the war between Israel and Hamas that Palestinian authorities say has killed over 45,000 in Gaza, and bolstering Ukraine's defence in its nearly 3-year war with Russia are top priorities, White House officials say.

"This is not an uncommon thing for presidents at the end of their term or in the transition period if there are unresolved conflicts," said US presidential historian and Vanderbilt University professor Thomas Alan Schwartz.

A ceasefire deal in the 14-month war in Gaza could happen in the coming days, with the administration making a forceful diplomatic push this week. Similar hopeful discussions have flopped in the past, but the scope of this agreement is narrower.

Biden is also rushing weapons to Ukraine for fear that Trump, who often boasts of his close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, may be less likely to aid Ukraine's war effort.

He may also seek to close a stripped-down security pact with Saudi Arabia, which could strengthen both countries against Iran. The oil-rich Middle East power rejected Biden's condition of normalising relations with Israel and consequently abandoned talks of a binding mutual defence treaty with the US.

HOME FRONT

Biden's final domestic policy sprint will include distributing the remaining funds he secured through his landmark investment legislation, including high-speed internet funding to states, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters. In January, he is expected to announce a $2,000 prescription drug cost cap for Medicare recipients, and he will work with Congress to get federal judges confirmed until the last minute, the memo said.

The stage is all but set for Biden to block the sale of US Steel to an overseas buyer as soon as next week, something he has promised to do for nearly a year as he touts his mission to keep and expand manufacturing on US soil.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which reviews deals for national security risks, has a Dec 23 deadline to approve the deal, extend the review, or recommend Biden scuttle it.

On this issue, Biden and Trump agree: Trump said earlier this month that he would block the deal.

Other priorities involve policies or programmes that Trump is likely to oppose, including efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change.

The Treasury Department is expected as soon as today to issue its highly contested final guidance for the Inflation Reduction Act's tax credit for hydrogen projects, and Biden officials are conferring with EU peers on locking in methane emissions before Trump takes office.

The Commerce Department is rapidly awarding its remaining funds to boost US semiconductor chip manufacturing, which were allocated by Biden's CHIPS and Science Act. Trump has criticised the programme's price tag, casting its future in doubt.



Title: Sweden ends funding for UN Palestinian aid agency UNRWA

It plans to increase Gaza aid to 800 million crowns next year

A Palestinian carries an aid box distributed by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Deir Al-Balah, central Gaza Strip, Nov 4, 2024. REUTERS/Ramadan Abed/File Photo

Sweden will no longer fund the UN refugee agency for Palestinians (UNRWA) and will instead provide increased overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza via other channels, the Nordic country said on Friday.

Israel, which says it will ban UNRWA operations in the country from late January, accuses the agency of being involved in the Oct 7, 2023, Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the 14-month-old war in Gaza.

Sweden's decision was in response to the Israeli ban, as it will make channelling aid via the agency more difficult, the country's aid minister, Benjamin Dousa, said.

"Large parts of UNRWA's operations in Gaza are either going to be severely weakened or completely impossible," Dousa told Reuters. "For the government, the most important thing is that support gets through."

Dousa said Sweden "in no way" supported Israel's law and had repeatedly expressed its criticism. "Israel must do much more to ensure humanitarian access to Gaza," he said.

The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA's operations in the West Bank and Gaza but it will have a severe impact on UNRWA's ability to work. Top UN officials describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza's aid response.

Sweden plans to lift its overall humanitarian aid to Gaza next year to 800 million Swedish crowns ($72.44 million) from 451 million spent this year, the foreign ministry said.

Aid will flow via several organisations including the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN Populations Fund (UNFPA) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the ministry added.

The Palestinian embassy in Stockholm said in a statement: "We reject the idea of finding alternatives to UNRWA, which has a special mandate to provide services to Palestinian refugees." The refugee population relies on UNRWA healthcare, education, emergency relief and humanitarian assistance, it said.

The UN General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month, demanding Israel respect the agency's mandate and "enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction".

UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X: "Defunding UNRWA now will undermine decades of Sweden’s investment in human development including by denying access to education for hundreds of thousands of girls and boys across the region."

Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Sharren Haskel thanked Dousa for a meeting they had this week and for Sweden's decision to drop its support for UNRWA.

"There are worthy and viable alternatives for humanitarian aid, and I appreciate the willingness to listen and adopt a different approach," she said.

The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved in the Oct 7, 2023 Hamas attack and had been fired. A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job.



Title: Israel's Netanyahu eyes Iran after triumphs over Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria

As Iran weakens, Israel rises as the dominant regional power

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks at a ceremony for military combat officers at an army base near Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, Oct 31, 2024. REUTERS/Amir Cohen/File Photo

2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his country's arch foe Iran.

The veteran Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals: tightening his military control over Gaza, thwarting Iran's nuclear ambitions and capitalising on the dismantling of Tehran's allies -- Palestinian Hamas, Lebanon's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

Assad's collapse, the elimination of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu.

Without Syria, the alliances Tehran has nurtured for decades have unravelled. As Iran's influence weakens, Israel is emerging as the dominant power in the region.

Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran's nuclear ambitions and missile programme, applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel.

Iran, Middle East observers say, faces a stark choice: Either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations.

"Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack, particularly against its nuclear programme," said Joost R. Hiltermann, Middle East and North Africa Program Director of the International Crisis Group. "I wouldn't be surprised if Israel did it, but that doesn't get rid of Iran."

"If they (Iranians) do not back down, Trump and Netanyahu might strike, as nothing now prevents them," said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib, referring to President-elect Donald Trump. Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership, having demonstrated pragmatism in the past, may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation.

Trump, who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear goals, is likely to step up sanctions on Iran's oil industry, despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy.

DEFINING LEGACY

Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza, Netanyahu's long-running corruption trial, which resumed in December, will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy. For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza war in 2023, Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis.

With 2024 coming to an end, the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old Gaza war and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave, according to sources close to the negotiations.

But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority (PA), which Netanyahu rejects. Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over.

"Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising. Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza," Khatib told Reuters.

For Netanyahu, such a result would mark a strategic victory, consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision: Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel's long-term control over Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state.

The Gaza war erupted when Hamas militants stormed into Israel on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people, health authorities there say, displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins.

While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities, it would not address the deeper, decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Arab and Western officials say.

On the ground, prospects for a Palestinian state, an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu's government, have become increasingly unattainable, with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views.

A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic "No Future in Palestine" - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians.

Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict, "any resolution would be on Israel’s terms," said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group.

"It's over when it comes to a Palestinian state, but the Palestinians are still there," he said.

In Trump's previous term, Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins, including the “Deal of the Century,” a US-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The plan, if implemented, marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations.

It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank, including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley. It would also recognise Jerusalem as the "undivided capital of Israel" - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital, a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions.

SYRIA AT CRITICAL CROSSROADS

Across the border from Israel, Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) rebel forces, led by Ahmad al-Sharaa, better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani.

Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria, where the military and police force have collapsed. HTS has to rebuild from scratch, securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from jihadists, remnants of the Assad regime, and other adversaries.

The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS, once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy, reverts to a rigid Islamist ideology.

The group’s ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria, home to diverse communities of Sunnis, Shi'ites, Alawites, Kurds, Druze and Christians.

"If they succeed in that (Syrian nationalism) there's hope for Syria, but if they revert to their comfort zone of quite strongly ideologically-tainted Islamism, then it's going to be divisive in Syria," said Hiltermann.

"You could have chaos and a weak Syria for a long time, just like we saw in Libya and Iraq."



Title: Elon Musk gives nod to German far-right party as election looms

He backs multiple anti-immigration parties in Europe

Tesla CEO and X owner Elon Musk listens as US President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with House Republicans at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Washington, DC, US on Nov 13, 2024. ALLISON ROBBERT/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo

US billionaire Elon Musk, set to join President-elect Donald Trump's administration as an outside adviser, waded into Germany's election campaign on Friday, calling the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) the country's saviour.

The AfD is running second in opinion polls and might be able to thwart either a centre-right or centre-left majority, but Germany's mainstream, more centrist parties have vowed to shun support from the AfD at national level.

Europe's leading power is expected to vote on Feb 23 after a centre-left coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz collapsed.

"Only the AfD can save Germany," Musk wrote in a post on his social media platform, X.

Musk, the world's richest person, has already expressed support for other anti-immigration parties across Europe.

The German government said it had taken note of Musk's post but declined to give any further comment at its regular press conference.

Musk reposted a message by German right-wing influencer Naomi Seibt that criticised Friedrich Merz, chancellor candidate for the conservatives, who are comfortably ahead in surveys.

Matthias Miersch, secretary-general of Scholz's Social Democrats, told the media outlet t-online that Germany did not need foreign influences or "Trumpism", adding: "Stay out, Elon."

Musk had already voiced support for the AfD last year, when he attacked the German government's handling of illegal migration.

Last month, Musk called for the sacking of Italian judges who had questioned the legality of government measures to prevent irregular immigration.

And this week Nigel Farage, leader of Britain's right-wing Reform UK party and friend of Trump, posted a photo of himself and Reform's treasurer meeting Musk at Trump's Florida residence, and said he was in talks with Musk about financial support.



Title: Top US officials in Damascus to meet new Syrian rulers, State Department says

The delegation also seeks information on a US journalist, missing since 2012

Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani speaks to a crowd at Ummayad Mosque in Damascus, after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad, Syria Dec 8, 2024. REUTERS/Mahmoud Hassano//File Photo

Top US diplomats were expected to hold Washington's first in-person official meetings with Syria's new de facto rulers led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Damascus on Friday, hoping to gauge what plans the former al Qaeda affiliate has for the country.

The United States, other Western powers and many Syrians were glad to see militias led by HTS topple President Bashar al-Assad, but it is not clear whether the group will impose strict Islamic rule or show flexibility and move towards democracy.

The US officials from the Biden administration will discuss with HTS representatives a set of principles such as inclusivity and respect for the rights of minorities that Washington wants included in Syria's political transition, a State Department spokesperson said.

The State Department's top Middle East diplomat Barbara Leaf, Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and Senior Advisor Daniel Rubinstein, who is tasked with leading the Department's Syria engagement, are the first US diplomats to travel to Damascus since Assad's rule collapsed.

Western governments are gradually opening channels to HTS and its leader Ahmed al-Sharaa, a former commander of an al Qaeda franchise in Syria, and starting to debate whether to remove the group's terrorist designation. The US delegation's trip follows contacts with France and Britain in recent days.

The delegation will also seek information about US journalist Austin Tice, who was taken captive during a reporting trip to Syria in August 2012, and other American citizens who went missing under Assad.

"They will be engaging directly with the Syrian people, including members of civil society, activists, members of different communities, and other Syrian voices about their vision for the future of their country and how the United States can help support them," the State Department spokesperson said.

"They also plan to meet with representatives of HTS to discuss transition principles endorsed by the United States and regional partners in Aqaba, Jordan."

The US cut diplomatic ties with Syria and shut its embassy in the capital Damascus in 2012.

SYRIANS GATHER

Several hundred Syrians gathered in Damascus' central Ummayad Square on Thursday to call for a democratic, secular state that ensures equal rights for women. It was the first such demonstration since Assad's ouster.

There is widespread apprehension among Syrians that the new administration will gravitate towards hardline religious rule, marginalising minority communities and excluding women from public life.

Obaida Arnout, a spokesperson for the Syrian transitional government, said this week that women's "biological and physiological nature" rendered them unfit for certain governmental jobs.

The UN human rights office will send a small team of human rights officers to Syria next week for the first time in years following the overthrow of Assad, UN spokesperson Thameen Al-Kheetan told a press briefing in Geneva.

As part of the takeover, rebels have flung open prisons and government offices, raising fresh hopes for accountability for crimes committed during Syria's civil war.

Syrian rebels seized control of Damascus on Dec 8, forcing Assad to flee after more than 13 years of civil war and ending his family's decades-long rule.

The rebel sweep ended a war that killed hundreds of thousands, caused one of the biggest refugee crises of modern times and left cities bombed to rubble, countryside depopulated and the economy hollowed out by global sanctions.

The lightning offensive raised questions over whether the rebels will be able to ensure an orderly transition.

Forces under the command of al-Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - replaced the Assad family rule with a three-month caretaker government that had been ruling a rebel enclave in Syria's northwestern province of Idlib.

Washington designated al-Sharaa a terrorist in 2013, saying al Qaeda in Iraq had tasked him with overthrowing Assad's rule and establishing Islamic sharia law in Syria. It said the Nusra Front, the predecessor of HTS, carried out suicide attacks that killed civilians and espoused a violent sectarian vision.

Golani said the terrorist designation was unfair and that he opposed the killing of innocent people.

Washington remains concerned that ISIS could seize the moment to resurrect and also wants to avoid any clashes in the country's northeast between Turkey-backed rebel factions and US-allied Kurdish militia.



Title: Georgia to award medals to officials sanctioned by West for protest crackdown

11 officials are set to receive one of Georgia's highest civilian medals

Georgia's Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze leaves after a briefing amid the political crisis, triggered by the government's decision to suspend talks on joining the European Union, in Tbilisi, Georgia Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Irakli Gedenidze

Five Georgian interior ministry officials who were sanctioned by the West for their role in a violent crackdown on pro-EU protesters will be presented with one of the country's highest honours, Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze said on Friday.

Georgians have been protesting daily for three weeks since the government announced it was halting talks on joining the European Union - a longstanding and widely popular national goal - until 2028.

The officials to be decorated include Interior Minister Vakhtang Gomelauri and heads of the ministry's Special Tasks Department, which is accused of orchestrating beatings of opposition politicians and journalists, who were sanctioned by the US and UK on Thursday.

Gomelauri, a former bodyguard to Bidzina Ivanishvili, a billionaire ex-prime minister widely seen as Georgia's paramount leader, was also promoted on Friday to deputy prime minister.

Police have used water cannon and tear gas against the crowds. Georgia's government has accused the demonstrators of trying to stage a revolution and says more than 150 police officers have been injured in clashes with protesters who have thrown fireworks at them.

Georgia had been seen as among the most democratic and pro-Western of the Soviet Union's successor states, but critics accuse it of moving in an increasingly authoritarian and pro-Russian direction in the past several years.

Kobakhidze told reporters the government would compensate any officials who suffered financial losses as a result of the "unjust decision" to impose Western sanctions.

He said the officials were being rewarded for "the honourable actions carried out by the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs." A total of 11 senior officials would be nominated for the Order of Honour, one of Georgia's highest civilian medals.



