Category: https://bdnews24.com/entertainment

Title: Hollywood embraces God and the 'cowboy curious' to broaden audience

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience

Creator, director and executive producer Taylor Sheridan (L) poses with cast members Kevin Costner and Kelly Reilly at a premiere for the television series "Yellowstone" in Los Angeles, California, US, June 11, 2018. REUTERS

The script for the biblical epic "Mary," which tells the story of the Nativity from the perspective of Mary of Nazareth, languished in Hollywood for some 15 years before entering production.

As the independent film approached completion this September, it attracted interest from three major Hollywood studios and streaming giant Netflix, which emerged as the global distributor and released the movie this month.

"Mary" has ranked among Netflix's top 10 English-language movies, attracting 24.6 million views.

"The marketplace has changed dramatically over the course of the past five years," said director DJ Caruso. "Particularly in the epic or the high-quality, faith-based genre. There's a real desire or hunger out there now."

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience. Major film studios, wealthy investors and streaming services are pouring money into faith-based movies, rodeos and outdoor lifestyle programming as an alternative to superhero sagas or dramas heavy with sex and violence.

Studio executives, talent agents and television showrunners told Reuters the industry has recognized it is missing broad swaths of the United States. Donald Trump’s election as president in November, buoyed by working-class voters, underscored the importance of programming to the whole country, not just cities on the coasts.

Hollywood has periodically mined the Bible for box office gold with films such as "The Ten Commandments" and "Noah." The success of Angel Studios' "Sound of Freedom," a 2023 thriller loosely based on the story of a Homeland Security agent who rescues children from sex trafficking, won over religious and conservative audiences and sparked new interest in the genre.

FROM HORROR TO FAITH

Hollywood's master of modern horror, "Paranormal Activity" filmmaker Jason Blum, joined Lionsgate and other investors in backing The Wonder Project, an independent studio that raised more than $75 million to produce faith-based films and series for Amazon Prime Video. Its series about a biblical king, "House of David," will be released in February.

"There are an awful lot of people throughout the country that think this is exactly the type of programming they'd like to watch -- particularly with their families," said Lionsgate Vice Chairman Michael Burns.

Lionsgate this year renewed its partnership with Kingdom Story Company, the production company behind "Jesus Revolution."

Netflix, meanwhile, struck a multiyear deal with acclaimed filmmaker and actor Tyler Perry to produce faith-based films for the streaming service.

Some executives told Reuters the industry has recognised it is missing broad regions of the US with films and TV shows that garner critical acclaim but draw a narrow audience.

The disparity is exemplified by the commercial success of Paramount Network's "Yellowstone," the Western family melodrama that swept America's heartland. "Yellowstone" attracted more than 11.4 million viewers in its fifth-season finale -- nearly four times as many as the 2023 finale of the Emmy-winning HBO series "Succession."

Thomas Tull, founder of superhero movie producer Legendary Entertainment, recognized the opportunity before many others. Together with TWG Global and Guggenheim Partners CEO Mark Walter, he launched Teton Ridge in 2019, a Western sports, entertainment and lifestyle brand built around rodeos. The company, which is owned by TWG Global, attracted additional investment from venture capitalist Jim Breyer and the Lee Bass family office.

The live competitions -- which include bull riding, steer wrestling and barrel racing -- attract a global audience of 80 million people a year.

COWBOY HEROES

Teton Ridge saddled up, last month acquiring The Cowboy Channel and Cowgirl Channel, a deal that secured exclusive media rights to more than 600 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association rodeos. That augments its collection of Western sports properties, which include the American Rodeo Contender Series, whose championship weekend is carried live on Fox Sports, and the "Let's Freakin' Rodeo" podcast, hosted by top-ranked tie-down roper Ty Harris and his cousin, filmmaker Cole Harris.

Meanwhile, Teton Ridge Entertainment is exploring Western stories in films, series and documentaries, including adapting the late bestselling author Louis L’Amour’s novel “Fallon,” which is set in the Old West, appealing to an audience CEO Deirdre Lester describes as the “cowboy curious.”

"Our mission is to be making content for an underserved audience," said Jillian Share, president of Teton Ridge Entertainment. "Making stuff where it appeals to a much larger part of our country than a lot of the stuff that we -- myself included -- have been focused on for the last 20 years of my career.”

She called the cowboy “the first true, great American hero.”

“You look at superheroes and you look at Marvel and DC, and you're like, what's more iconic than the cowboy?” Share said.

Veteran entertainment executive Peter Chernin's investment fund The Chernin Group became the principal investor in MeatEater in 2018, a blossoming media brand built around outdoorsman Steven Rinella, a best-selling author, podcaster and host of a forthcoming History Channel series, “Hunting History.”

Some, however, feel sidelined by Hollywood’s pursuit of the American heartland. They worry that executives have become fearful of being branded "woke," a label hurled at Walt Disney by Florida Governor and former Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

One television showrunner, who was in the final phase of negotiations for a streaming series featuring a diverse cast, learned a day after Trump’s election that the project would not go forward. The showrunner, who requested anonymity for fear of retaliation, saw a correlation between the programming decision and Trump’s victory.

Another development executive shared an email from one network executive, who rejected a project as too "political."

Earlier this year, the makers of "The Apprentice," a biopic about Trump, struggled to find a distributor even after an enthusiastic reception at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

An attorney for Trump sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers. Briarcliff Entertainment released the movie in October, and stars Sebastian Stan and Jeremy Strong were nominated for Golden Globe awards.

This week, Disney said it had removed a transgender storyline from upcoming Pixar animation series "Win or Lose." The character will remain in the show, but the few lines of dialogue that reference the character's gender identity have been removed.

"When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline," a Disney spokesperson said.



Title: Brazilian judge orders Adele song removed over plagiarism claim

Adele is accused of copying a song ‘Mulheres’, a national hit since the 1990s

Adele waves to singer Beyonce who is in the audience as she and co-song writer Greg Kurstin (not pictured) accept the Grammy for Song of the Year for "Hello" at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US , Feb 12, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson

A judge in Rio de Janeiro has ordered the global removal of a 2015 song by British singer Adele due to a plagiarism claim by a Brazilian musician, which Universal Music is fighting on appeal.

The ruling, made public on Monday, came in a case filed this year by Toninho Geraes, whose compositions were made famous by some of Brazil's most acclaimed samba singers.

Geraes accused Adele of copying his song "Mulheres", a national hit since the 1990s. His lawyers uploaded to YouTube a comparison of that song and Adele's "Million Years Ago".

"The ruling shows that the Brazilian justice system is strong and that injuries to Brazilian artists won't be ignored," said Fredimio Biasotto Trotta, a lawyer for Geraes.

The decision orders Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music to immediately cease "using, reproducing, editing, distributing, or commercializing" the song by any means on streaming or sharing platforms, without Geraes' consent. It set a fine of 50,000 reais ($8,080.94) if the companies fail to comply with the order.

The Berne Convention, an international treaty, orders other signatory countries, including the US, to comply with legal decisions regarding copyright, Trotta said.

Geraes' lawyers are now notifying streaming services, such as Spotify SPOT.N and Deezer, to withdraw the song in Brazil and globally. On Wednesday morning, the song was still widely available.

Universal appealed the decision on Tuesday, arguing there was no plagiarism, only an "accidental melodic similarity" due to the use of "musical clichés."

Both Adele and Geraes have contracts with Universal, but the Brazilian musician has been trying to terminate his contract with the company due to his plagiarism claim, his lawyer said.

"I felt very disrespected," Geraes told Reuters. He is asking the courts for compensation of more than $150,000.

Lawyers representing Universal Music declined to comment, and Sony Music did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

Geraes learned of the similarities between the two songs after a friend, who is also a composer, heard Adele's "Million Years Ago" at a party in 2021.



Title: Tabla legend Zakir Hussain dies at 73

The musician was the winner of 4 Grammy awards and the Padma Vibhushan, India’s second-highest civilian honour

Tabla maestro Zakir Hussain has died at a hospital in the US’s San Francisco, reports Indian broadcaster NDTV. He was 73.

Zakir died from complications due to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, according to a statement from the family.

He had been in hospital for the past two weeks and was shifted to intensive care when his condition deteriorated.

Zakir’s sister Khurshid Aulia said he passed away "very peacefully".

"He passed away very peacefully after the ventilation machine was switched off. This was 4pm San Francisco time," she told PTI.

The esteemed tabla great leaves behind a wife and two daughters.

"He leaves behind an extraordinary legacy cherished by countless music lovers around the globe, with an influence that will resonate for generations to come,” the family said.

Zakir was born on Mar 9, 1951, the son of heralded tabla master Ustad Alla Rakha.

Over a career that spanned six decades, he worked with renowned artists in India and abroad. His collaborators included Indian icons Ravi Shankar, Ali Akbar Khan and Shivkumar Sharma, as well as groundbreaking work with John McLaughlin, Yo-Yo Ma, Charles Lloyd, Bela Fleck, Edgar Meyer, Mickey Hart and George Harrison.

One of India’s most celebrated classical musicians, Zakir received the Padma Shri in 1988, Padma Bhushan in 2002, and the Padma Vibhushan -- India’s second-highest civilian honour -- in 2023.

He was also acclaimed on the international stage, taking home four Grammy Awards, including three at the ceremony earlier this year.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan hailed Zakir as "a beacon of India's rich musical heritage and a true custodian of classical traditions".

"Ustad Zakir Hussain was instrumental in popularising Indian music across the globe, serving as a beacon of India's rich musical heritage. A true custodian of classical traditions, his contributions to the arts remain unparalleled. His passing is a monumental loss to culture and humanity. Heartfelt condolences to his loved ones," he said.

Expressing his condolences to Zakir's family, Congress President Mallikarjun Kharge called him a "cultural ambassador who bridged borders and generations with his mesmerising rhythms".

"The Padma Vibhushan tabla maestro and percussionist, gloriously took forward the legacy of his father with exceptional performances and collaborations. His numerous national and international honours are a testament to this.”



Title: Allu Arjun vows cooperation in probe into woman's death at 'Pushpa 2' premiere after release from jail

The South Indian star was arrested over a stampede that killed a woman and injured a child at a screening of his latest blockbuster

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun has promised to cooperate in the probe into the stampede at the screening of his latest blockbuster 'Pushpa 2: The Rule' that killed a woman and seriously injured a child in Hyderabad following his release from jail.

He stressed that he is a law-abiding citizen and expressed his condolences to the victim's family after being freed on bail on Saturday, Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

"I want to thank all my fans. There is nothing to worry about. I would like to once again express my condolences to the family. It was an unfortunate incident. We are sorry for what happened," he said.

Allu Arjun was arrested on Friday in connection with the fatal incident at Hyberabad's Sandhya Theatre on Dec 4. Despite securing bail from a Telangana High Court, he had to spend the night behind bars as the jail authorities did not received a copy of the bail order until late last night.

The actor's counsel Ashok Reddy pointed the finger at the authorities for the delay in his release from jail. "The High Court order is very specific. Forthwith, the moment you [prison authorities] receive the order, [they should] release him. Despite the clear order, they have not released, they have to answer. This is an illegal detention. We will take legal steps," he is quoted as saying by NDTV.

Hours after Allu Arjun's arrest, the victim's husband said that he was "ready to withdraw the case".

"I was not aware of the arrest. Allu Arjun has nothing to do with the stampede in which my wife passed away," he said.

ALLU ARJUN THANKS SUPPORTERS

After an emotional reunion with his family, the actor expressed gratitude to everyone who supported him following his arrest, especially his fans. He reiterated that the stampede and subsequent death of the woman were "purely accidental and unintentional, with no connection to me".

He added that he had been visiting Sandhya Theatre for 20 years and had never witnessed such an incident before.

WHAT HAPPENED ON DEC 4?

A 35-year-old woman died and her eight-year-old son was hospitalised after a stampede broke out as thousands of fans gathered to catch a glimpse of Allu Arjun at the premiere of the blockbuster Pushpa 2.

WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?

In the aftermath of the incident, city police filed a case against the actor, his security team, and the theatre management based on a complaint lodged by the woman's family.

Reacting to the arrest, Rashmika Mandanna, Arjun's Pushpa 2 co-star, said she was "disheartened to see everything being blamed on a single individual".

Actor Varun Dhawan also weighed in, saying, "Safety protocols can't be solely the responsibility of an actor. We can inform people around us, but the incident was tragic, and I express my condolences. However, the blame can't rest on one person alone."



Title: Actor Allu Arjun arrested after woman's death in 'Pushpa 2' screening stampede

A stampede erupted at Hyderabad's Sandhya Theatre after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance during the film's premiere

Indian police have arrested Telugu superstar Allu Arjun in connection with a stampede that occurred outside a Hyderabad theatre and led to a woman's death.

The stampede broke out after the hugely popular actor made an unscheduled appearance at the theatre during a screening of his new film 'Pusha 2: The Rule', Indian broadcaster NDTV reports.

Earlier, Hyderabad police filed a case naming the 41-year-old actor and others, including his security team members and the management of the Sandhya Theatre.

The victim was a 35-year-old woman. Her eight-year-old son was also injured in the stampede that erupted as the massive crowd jostled and shoved each other to catch a glimpse of Arjun upon his unannounced arrival.

"There was no intimation from the side of theatre management or actors' team... that they will be visiting the theatre..." Hyderabad Police Commissioner CV Anand had said.

He also noted that no separate entry, or exit, were provided, even though the theatre authorities knew they were coming.

Arjun arrived at the theatre at 9:30pm. He used the main entrance and spent 15-20 minutes outside. As news of his arrival spread, hundreds of people thronged to catch a glimpse of him.

His security team started pushing the crowd back and that aggravated the situation.

Revathi, the deceased woman, and her son felt "suffocated", police said. They were pulled out of the crowd by police who performed emergency first aid and shifted them to a nearby hospital.

Arjun, by this time, had gone into the theatre, but the crowd had continued building in the lobby.

The actor has since announced assistance of Rs 2.5 million for the woman's family, and also promised to take care of the medical expenses of the child, whose condition was critical.



Title: Another fan dies during screening of Allu Arjun's 'Pushpa-2' in India

A woman had previously been killed in a stampede while attending the Allu Arjun starrer's premiere in Hyderabad

South Indian superstar Allu Arjun's "Pushpa 2: The Rule" has been marred by the death of another viewer during a screening at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh.

Despite dominating the Indian box office since its release, the film has now been overshadowed by two deaths in theatres, sparking widespread concern.

According to The Hindustan Times, the latest incident occurred on Monday when the body of 35-year-old Harijana Madhannappa was found at a theatre in Andhra Pradesh' Rayadurgam.

Ravi Babu, an Andhra Pradesh police official, said that Madhannappa attended a 2:30pm screening on Monday.

He allegedly arrived intoxicated and continued drinking inside the theatre, according to Babu. Around 6pm, cleaning staff discovered him unresponsive, he said.

Police noted that Madhannappa, a father of four, had a history of alcohol abuse.

The exact cause of death has yet to be determined, but a case has been filed over the matter, Babu said.

Earlier, on Dec 4, 32-year-old Revathi was trampled to death while attending the premiere of "Pushpa 2" in Hyderabad. She was accompanied by her 9-year-old son Sritej, who fainted amid the chaos.

Following the incident, Revathi’s family filed a lawsuit against Allu Arjun, his security team, and the theatre authorities.

In response, Allu Arjun pledged Rs 2.5 million in compensation to Revathi’s family and assured that he would cover all medical expenses for her son Sritej.

Police have launched separate investigations into both incidents.

"Pushpa 2", directed by Sukumar, premiered on Dec 5. Starring Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna, the film has been a box office sensation, earning over Rs 6.45 billion in its first week of release.



Title: 'Hopefully it'll happen soon': Aamir hints at doing a film with Shah Rukh and Salman

“I was the person who brought this up and told Shah Rukh and Salman that it would be really sad if the three of us didn't do a film together."

Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, and Salman Khan -- the big 3 of Bollywood -- have been ruling the box office and shaping Hindi cinema for three decades. While Salman has shared the screen with both Aamir and Shah Rukh, the three Khans have never starred in a film together.

With past feuds, public spats and tensions now seemingly behind them, Aamir teased the tantalising prospect of a collaboration involving the iconic trio. A 'great script' is all that's missing, according to him.

In an interview with Indian news agency ANI, Aamir revealed that the idea of the three Khans working together on a project has been discussed, though the last conversation on the subject happened "about six months back".

Aamir, whose meticulous approach to filmmaking has earned him the moniker ‘Mr Perfectionist’, said, “I was the person who brought this up and told Shah Rukh and Salman that it would be really sad if the three of us didn't do a film together.”

"I think Salman and Shah Rukh were equally in agreement and were, 'Yes, we must do a film together. The three of us.' Hopefully, it will happen soon."

Asked about the roadblock to the dream collaboration, Aamir said, “It will need the right kind of story. So, we'll have to wait for the right script. We are all looking forward to it."

Last year, Shah Rukh and Salman appeared together in the blockbuster 'Pathaan'. While Aamir admitted he hasn’t watched the entire film, he revealed that the 'train track scene' featuring the duo left him in splits, the Hindustan Times reports.

“I have found the scene really funny. I have not seen that film but I have seen that scene. You get clips nowadays on Instagram and all that so I ended up seeing that scene it's quite funny,” he said.

"I think all the young actors must have got really upset and you can't even get too upset with Shah Rukh and Salman. What can you say?"



Title: Jay-Z lawyer says anonymous rape accuser must reveal her identity or drop lawsuit

The lawsuit alleges that Jay-Z and fellow rap mogul Sean 'Diddy' Combs raped a 13-year-old girl at a party in 2000

FILE PHOTO: Jay Z accepts the Dr Dre Global Impact Award during the 66th Annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California, US, February 4, 2024. REUTERS

A lawyer for Shawn Carter, the hip-hop mogul known as Jay-Z, has called for the woman who has accused the rapper of raping her when she was 13 to disclose her identity or have the lawsuit dismissed.

The lawsuit, initially filed in October, involved a woman identified only as "Jane Doe", who accused rapper Sean 'Diddy' Combs of raping her at a party following the MTV Video Music Awards in 2000. The complaint was amended on Dec 8 to allege that Jay-Z was also present and participated in the assault.

In a court filing on Monday, Jay-Z’s attorney Alex Spiro argued that the accuser failed to provide sufficient evidence to justify her anonymity, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

“Mr Carter deserves to know the identity of the person who is effectively accusing him — in sensationalised, publicity-hunting fashion — of criminal conduct, demanding massive financial compensation and tarnishing a reputation earned over decades,” Spiro wrote. “He has never been accused of, let alone engaged in, any sexual misconduct.”

Spiro also highlighted other sexual misconduct cases filed against Combs by the plaintiff’s attorney, Tony Buzbee. According to Spiro, these cases similarly lack grounds for proceeding under anonymity.

Jay-Z denied the allegations on social media and blasted the lawsuit, calling it part of a "blackmail attempt" by the plaintiff's lawyer, Reuters reports.

The lawsuit was originally filed in the Southern District of New York and at that time did not name Jay-Z as a defendant, though the amended lawsuit says that Jay-Z was identified as "Celebrity A" on the original complaint, according to Reuters.

Combs has denied all allegations against him, including this one, in October. He is currently in jail on federal sex trafficking charges, to which he has pleaded not guilty.

The lawsuit alleges that the unnamed girl was drugged and raped by both Jay-Z and Combs at a party hosted by Combs following the MTV Music Awards in 2000, which was held in New York.

Buzbee, the Texas lawyer representing the girl who filed the lawsuit, has filed at least 20 civil lawsuits against Combs accusing him of sexual misconduct.

In an email to Reuters, Buzbee said the Jay-Z lawsuit "speaks for itself".

"This is a very serious matter that will be litigated in court," Buzbee wrote.

Buzbee, in his amended lawsuit, says his legal firm had previously sent Jay-Z a letter seeking to mediate a settlement.

Jay-Z, the lawsuit says, responded to that letter by filing a lawsuit against Buzbee, and by "orchestrating a conspiracy of harassment" against Buzbee and other lawyers in his firm, which the lawyer said was an intimidation tactic meant to silence his client.

In a post on social media, Buzbee said the alleged rape victim he is representing "never demanded a penny" from Jay-Z, writing that "she only sought a confidential mediation."

Buzbee last week filed a lawsuit against law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, whose lawyers represent Combs and Jay-Z, accusing the firm's legal team of harassing his colleagues, his clients and his family.

Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan did not respond to requests for comment.



Title: Chris Evans set for MCU return in ‘Avengers: Doomsday’

The announcement has sparked speculation about whether Evans will reprise his role as Captain America, or the Human Torch

Chris Evans poses at the premiere of the holiday film "Red One" in New York City, US, Nov 11, 2024. REUTERS/Kent J Edwards

Chris Evans is set to make his return to the Marvel Cinematic Universe with Avengers: Doomsday, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The film, slated for a May 1, 2026 release, will be directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, Evans's long-time collaborators behind four of his MCU appearances.

Also joining the project is Robert Downey Jr, who will take on the role of Doctor Doom. The announcement has sparked speculation about whether Evans will reprise his role as Steve Rogers, also known as Captain America, or Johnny Storm, the Human Torch—a character he played in Fox’s Fantastic Four films and revisited in this year’s “Deadpool & Wolverine”.

Evans first stepped into the Marvel universe as Johnny Storm in the 2005 “Fantastic Four” and its 2007 sequel, “Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer”. However, he solidified his superhero legacy as Steve Rogers, debuting in “Captain America: The First Avenger” (2011) and going on to appear in a string of Marvel blockbusters, including “The Avengers” (2012), “Captain America: The Winter Soldier” (2014), and “Avengers: Endgame” (2019).

In “Endgame”, Rogers’ storyline culminated with the character passing his iconic shield to Sam Wilson, played by Anthony Mackie, and retiring to live a quiet life with his love, Peggy Carter.

While the actor’s emotional farewell tweet in October 2018 suggested finality, Evans hinted in a 2023 interview with GQ that a return was not entirely off the table.

“I wouldn’t want the black eye if it felt like a cash grab or if it didn’t live up to expectations or if it just felt like it wasn’t connected to that original thing,” he said.

Evans' potential return comes at a time when Marvel seeks to revitalise its cinematic slate amid evolving audience expectations. Fans eagerly await confirmation of his role and the broader implications for the MCU’s ongoing narrative experiment.



Title: 'Emilia Perez,' 'The Brutalist' lead Golden Globe film nominations

The Globe winners will be chosen by 334 entertainment journalists from 85 countries

Golden Globe statues are displayed, before the announcement of nominations for the 82nd Golden Globe Awards in Beverly Hills, California, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni

Musical thriller "Emilia Perez" and historical epic "The Brutalist" led the roster of films nominated on Monday for the 2025 Golden Globes, the Hollywood honors that kick off the movie awards season leading to the Oscars.

"Emilia Perez," released by Netflix, scored 10 nods and "The Brutalist," from independent distributor A24, earned seven.

Taking home a Globe can help movies in the race to the Academy Awards in March. Last year's Hollywood strikes scrambled this year's release schedule, and awards pundits say there is no clear frontrunner for best picture at the Oscars.

"Emilia Perez" stars Zoe Saldana as a lawyer who helps a drug cartel leader (Spanish actor Karla Sofía Gascón) fake his death and transition from a man to a woman. Selena Gomez co-stars as the cartel leader's wife. All three were nominated for by Globes voters for acting honors.

"The Brutalist" stars Adrien Brody in an epic tale of a Hungarian immigrant who flees the horrors of World War Two to rebuild his life in the United States.

Box office smash "Wicked," adapted from a long-running Broadway play about the witches in "The Wizard of Oz," landed four nominations.



Title: Global music stars head to India as young, affluent Indians pack concerts

Dua Lipa and Maroon 5 performed in India's financial capital Mumbai in the past seven days, while Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, Shawn Mendes and Green Day have concerts planned over the next three months

Girls hold posters outside the venue of the Dua Lipa concert in Mumbai, India November 30, 2024. REUTERS

Young, well-to-do Indians’ booming appetite for live entertainment is attracting global music stars as they seek out new audiences in the world’s most populous nation.

Dua Lipa and Maroon 5 performed in India's financial capital Mumbai in the past seven days, while Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, Shawn Mendes and Green Day have concerts planned over the next three months.

"We've been listening to these artists online for years so seeing them in real life is quite exciting," said Aseem Khan, a 23-year old from Bhopal in central India, as he queued with three friends to see British-Albanian pop star Dua Lipa.

About 20,000 people went to the Mumbai concert. Like Khan, many were in their early to mid 20s, and had travelled from across India to see the show. Two-thirds of the country's 1.4 billion population is under the age of 35.

Performances are a great way to spend "a weekend with multiple groups of friends as everyone is going to concerts these days," Khan said.

Affluent, globally connected Indians are driving the demand, according to executives at event management and ticketing firms.

"India is the second largest audio streaming market for most global artists around the world, translating very effectively to heightened demand on-ground for music concerts," said Anil Makhija, chief operating office for live entertainment and venues at BookMyShow, India's largest online ticketing platform.

The interest has changed how global stars are looking at India, said Adam Wilkes, president and chief executive for Asia Pacific at AEG, a live entertainment firm.

The video player is currently playing an ad. You can skip the ad in 5 sec with a mouse or keyboard

"What's been interesting the last few years is that it's gone from us saying, 'Hey, you ever think about India?' To them (artists) saying, 'Hey, I want to go to India,'" Wilkes said.

The concert boom has lifted other forms of live entertainment. There have been 27,000 live events, from music to comedy shows and theatre, in India so far this year to November, 35% more than in the same period last year, according to BookMyShow data.

Economists predict spillover effects into the wider economy as concert-goers splash out on transport, hotels, food and merchandise.

There will be a "significant boost to overall spending and consumption," Dipanwita Mazumdar and Jahnavi Prabhakar, economists at Bank of Baroda, wrote in a report on Dec 3.

At the current pace, they estimated concert-linked spending could total between 60 billion rupees ($708.5 million) and 80 billion rupees on an annualised basis over the next 12 months.

AEG's Wilkes says infrastructure improvements have also reduced the logistical challenges of staging shows in India, helped by the success of major sporting events such as cricket's IPL.

BEHIND THE BOOM

Affluent Indians' disposable income has been increasing even as growth in the world's fifth largest economy sees a slowdown and the middle class reins in spending on consumer goods.

While India's average per capita income remains low at close to $2,500 a year and there is significant inequality, the number of Indians earning more than 1 million Indian rupees ($11,807.77) a year has more than doubled to over 12 million over the last five financial years to March 2024, according to government data. India's financial year runs from April to March.

The cheapest tickets for Coldplay's upcoming shows were 2,500 rupees ($29.50) and the most expensive 35,000 rupees ($414). By comparison, prices for a Coldplay concert in South Korea were priced between $46.63 and $761.

Tickets for the initial two India shows sold out within minutes, prompting the band to add three more dates including two in the northwestern city of Ahmedabad.

Announcing the Ahmedabad performances would take place in a 130,000-seater stadium named after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Coldplay said it would be their "biggest ever show".

It was a sign of how the appetite for live events has spread beyond India's most prominent cities.

"Tier 2 and 3 cities are now the thriving hubs for out-of-home entertainment," said Makhija of BookMyShow.

Bryan Adams is set to perform in the northeastern city of Shillong next week while Ed Sheeran kicks off his 2025 tour of India from Pune, a city about 150 km (100 miles) southeast of Mumbai.

Stacked bar chart showing income distribution of individuals earning over 1 million rupees per year in India

Stacked bar chart showing income distribution of individuals earning over 1 million rupees per year in India

Aggregate revenue from India’s live entertainment market is expected to reach about $1.7 billion by 2026, growing at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 20% over the next three to five years, according to estimates from consulting firm Ernst and Young.

"If India can become 5-6 plus cities, like what Ed (Sheeran) is doing, then you're sort of in the same bucket as Canada, UK, Japan, Australia, China. Those are the top, top markets for live entertainment after the United States," said AEG's Wilkes.

Sheeran, who first played in India in 2015, has talked enthusiastically about the country and the joy of performing there.

"I really feel the love here, in India. People are so excited! I have a similar personality, so I resonate with that," he said in a media interview earlier this year.



Title: Taposh, wife among 5 sued over 'illegal takeover' of Gaan Bangla

A court sets Jan 1 for the submission of the investigation report in the case

A case has been filed over the alleged illegal takeover of 'Gaan Bangla', the country’s only music-based private television channel, against its Managing Director Kaushik Hossain Taposh, his wife and Chairperson Farzana Munni, and three others.

The case was initiated by Syed Shams Uddin Ahmed, according to Sub-Inspector Moktar, the general registration officer at Gulshan Police Station.

The other accused include Rabi Shankar Maitree, M Amanullah Khan (Chanchal Khan), Syed Nabil Ashraf, and four unidentified individuals.

SI Moktar said that the complainant submitted a petition to the court of Additional Metropolitan Magistrate Sanaullah in Dhaka on Nov 25. The judge accepted the petition and instructed the chief of Gulshan Police Station to register it as an official case.

The case was officially filed and on Dec 3, it was forwarded to court. After reviewing the complaint, Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate Sharifur Rahman set Jan 1 as the deadline for submitting the investigation report.

Investigating officer SI Harunor Rashid from Gulshan Police Station said, "The case is currently under investigation. Once the investigation is complete, we will submit the report to the court."

According to the case documents, Shams, along with Md Badruddoza Sagar, Bakhtiar Shikdar, and Rabi Shankar Maitree, had registered a company called Birds Eye Mass Media and Communication PLC on July 25, 2011, with the aim of opening a private satellite television channel.

The petitioner held 7,000 shares, while the others held 1,000 shares each, making up a total of 10,000 shares with a primary capital of Tk 10 million.

On Dec 22, 2011, Shams, who was the chairman and managing director of Birds Eye Mass Media, visited Amanullah Khan's home at the request of Amanullah and Rabi Shankar. Around 8pm that evening, Taposh, Farzana Munni, Nabil Ashraf, and several unidentified individuals arrived and demanded that Shams Uddin and Badruddoza Sagar sign documents, threatening them with firearms.

The plaintiff alleges that it became clear from their conversation that the suspects intended to seize Shams Uddin’s and Sagar’s 8,000 shares in Birds Eye Mass Media. Fearing for their lives, Shams Uddin and Sagar signed the documents.

The suspects also threatened to file cases against them or even kill them if they reported the incident or revealed any details. The suspects claimed to have the backing of influential figures from the previous government.

In fear of their safety, the plaintiffs filed a general diary with Mirpur Police Station on Dec 25, 2011, and subsequently left the country. After spending an extended period abroad, Shams Uddin returned to Bangladesh, confident that the rule of law had been restored. He then decided to file the case after consulting with all witnesses.

Rabi Shankar Maitree, one of the suspects in the case, denied the allegations, calling them “utterly fake” and “an extreme lie”. He claimed that similar cases had been filed with different plaintiffs’ names and dates, adding that Taposh and Munni had joined Gaan Bangla in July 2012. He also said that Shams Uddin had previously filed a case only against him and Amanullah Khan.

Expressing his disappointment, he said, "I lost my home country only for being one of the initiators of Gaan Bangla TV. My life in Bangladesh was ruined because of some rogues and barbarians. I am now living well in France. I don’t feel like talking about it, but one day, I’ll share everything in a live-stream on social media."

Attempts to reach Amanullah Khan, Syed Nabil Ashraf, and Farzana Munni for comment were unsuccessful. The key suspect, Taposh, is currently in jail in connection with the murder of a trader during the anti-discrimination movement in July.



Title: Director Jack Huston on battle behind first film 'Day of the Fight'

His first film stars Michael Pitt, Nicolette Robinson, Joe Pesci, Steve Buscemi and Ron Perlman and arrives in theaters on Friday

Cast member Jack Huston attends the Premiere of the film 'House of Gucci' at Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York City, New York, US, Nov 16, 2021. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz

Actor and director Jack Huston’s rich family history in Hollywood did not guarantee him an effortless process when directing and writing his first feature film, “Day of the Fight.”

"I can, without question, say this has been the hardest thing I've ever done in my life,” said Huston, grandson of late director John Huston and son of actor and assistant director Tony Huston.

“It's also still happening. The film hasn't come out yet. I mean, every day is still a fight. It's fight of the day not day of the fight. Every day is a new fight, a new hurdle,” he added.

“Day of the Fight,” distributed by Falling Forward Films, stars Michael Pitt, Nicolette Robinson, Joe Pesci, Steve Buscemi and Ron Perlman and arrives in theaters on Friday.

Huston’s great-grandfather Walter Huston was a leading man during Hollywood’s silent film era and won an Oscar for the film “The Treasure of the Sierra Madre,” directed by John Huston, who also won two Oscars for directing and writing that film.

Jack's aunt, Hollywood star Anjelica Huston, and his uncle, director and actor Danny Huston were also well-known in the industry.

Huston took some family advice when casting the lead Michael Pitt, who portrays Mike Flannigan, otherwise known by his boxer name Irish Mike, a terminally ill boxer trying to make amends in his life before he dies.

"I take a nice piece of advice I heard my grandfather say, which is ‘90 percent is casting,’" said Huston.

"I wrote every word for Michael Pitt. I knew that it was going to be Michael Pitt. I wouldn't have it any other way. I believe that when you cast an actor, you're giving them the role, that they own it now,” he added.

Huston and Pitt formed a bond while working together on the HBO crime drama “Boardwalk Empire.”

The film ends with a boxing fight in which Irish Mike knows he isn't going to survive.

"We had a day and a half on the boxing scene and in sort of relation to other boxing movies, that's a tenth, you know, probably a hundredth of what some other movies have had. But thank God I had Mike (Michael Pitt) as my sort of partner in crime,” the “American Hustle” actor said.

However, Pitt felt he let down the production after asking for a five-minute break during the fight scene.

“I was like, I'm tired," Pitt said. "I didn't condition myself well enough. And then someone told me how long we had been shooting. We'd been shooting for like eight hours. And I was like, oh, I'm fine."



Title: Hollywood embraces God and the 'cowboy curious' to broaden audience

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience

Creator, director and executive producer Taylor Sheridan (L) poses with cast members Kevin Costner and Kelly Reilly at a premiere for the television series "Yellowstone" in Los Angeles, California, US, June 11, 2018. REUTERS

The script for the biblical epic "Mary," which tells the story of the Nativity from the perspective of Mary of Nazareth, languished in Hollywood for some 15 years before entering production.

As the independent film approached completion this September, it attracted interest from three major Hollywood studios and streaming giant Netflix, which emerged as the global distributor and released the movie this month.

"Mary" has ranked among Netflix's top 10 English-language movies, attracting 24.6 million views.

"The marketplace has changed dramatically over the course of the past five years," said director DJ Caruso. "Particularly in the epic or the high-quality, faith-based genre. There's a real desire or hunger out there now."

Hollywood is turning to God, the American West and outdoor enthusiasts to capture a wider audience. Major film studios, wealthy investors and streaming services are pouring money into faith-based movies, rodeos and outdoor lifestyle programming as an alternative to superhero sagas or dramas heavy with sex and violence.

Studio executives, talent agents and television showrunners told Reuters the industry has recognized it is missing broad swaths of the United States. Donald Trump’s election as president in November, buoyed by working-class voters, underscored the importance of programming to the whole country, not just cities on the coasts.

Hollywood has periodically mined the Bible for box office gold with films such as "The Ten Commandments" and "Noah." The success of Angel Studios' "Sound of Freedom," a 2023 thriller loosely based on the story of a Homeland Security agent who rescues children from sex trafficking, won over religious and conservative audiences and sparked new interest in the genre.

FROM HORROR TO FAITH

Hollywood's master of modern horror, "Paranormal Activity" filmmaker Jason Blum, joined Lionsgate and other investors in backing The Wonder Project, an independent studio that raised more than $75 million to produce faith-based films and series for Amazon Prime Video. Its series about a biblical king, "House of David," will be released in February.

"There are an awful lot of people throughout the country that think this is exactly the type of programming they'd like to watch -- particularly with their families," said Lionsgate Vice Chairman Michael Burns.

Lionsgate this year renewed its partnership with Kingdom Story Company, the production company behind "Jesus Revolution."

Netflix, meanwhile, struck a multiyear deal with acclaimed filmmaker and actor Tyler Perry to produce faith-based films for the streaming service.

Some executives told Reuters the industry has recognised it is missing broad regions of the US with films and TV shows that garner critical acclaim but draw a narrow audience.

The disparity is exemplified by the commercial success of Paramount Network's "Yellowstone," the Western family melodrama that swept America's heartland. "Yellowstone" attracted more than 11.4 million viewers in its fifth-season finale -- nearly four times as many as the 2023 finale of the Emmy-winning HBO series "Succession."

Thomas Tull, founder of superhero movie producer Legendary Entertainment, recognized the opportunity before many others. Together with TWG Global and Guggenheim Partners CEO Mark Walter, he launched Teton Ridge in 2019, a Western sports, entertainment and lifestyle brand built around rodeos. The company, which is owned by TWG Global, attracted additional investment from venture capitalist Jim Breyer and the Lee Bass family office.

The live competitions -- which include bull riding, steer wrestling and barrel racing -- attract a global audience of 80 million people a year.

COWBOY HEROES

Teton Ridge saddled up, last month acquiring The Cowboy Channel and Cowgirl Channel, a deal that secured exclusive media rights to more than 600 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association rodeos. That augments its collection of Western sports properties, which include the American Rodeo Contender Series, whose championship weekend is carried live on Fox Sports, and the "Let's Freakin' Rodeo" podcast, hosted by top-ranked tie-down roper Ty Harris and his cousin, filmmaker Cole Harris.

Meanwhile, Teton Ridge Entertainment is exploring Western stories in films, series and documentaries, including adapting the late bestselling author Louis L’Amour’s novel “Fallon,” which is set in the Old West, appealing to an audience CEO Deirdre Lester describes as the “cowboy curious.”

"Our mission is to be making content for an underserved audience," said Jillian Share, president of Teton Ridge Entertainment. "Making stuff where it appeals to a much larger part of our country than a lot of the stuff that we -- myself included -- have been focused on for the last 20 years of my career.”

She called the cowboy “the first true, great American hero.”

“You look at superheroes and you look at Marvel and DC, and you're like, what's more iconic than the cowboy?” Share said.

Veteran entertainment executive Peter Chernin's investment fund The Chernin Group became the principal investor in MeatEater in 2018, a blossoming media brand built around outdoorsman Steven Rinella, a best-selling author, podcaster and host of a forthcoming History Channel series, “Hunting History.”

Some, however, feel sidelined by Hollywood’s pursuit of the American heartland. They worry that executives have become fearful of being branded "woke," a label hurled at Walt Disney by Florida Governor and former Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

One television showrunner, who was in the final phase of negotiations for a streaming series featuring a diverse cast, learned a day after Trump’s election that the project would not go forward. The showrunner, who requested anonymity for fear of retaliation, saw a correlation between the programming decision and Trump’s victory.

Another development executive shared an email from one network executive, who rejected a project as too "political."

Earlier this year, the makers of "The Apprentice," a biopic about Trump, struggled to find a distributor even after an enthusiastic reception at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

An attorney for Trump sent a cease-and-desist letter to the filmmakers. Briarcliff Entertainment released the movie in October, and stars Sebastian Stan and Jeremy Strong were nominated for Golden Globe awards.

This week, Disney said it had removed a transgender storyline from upcoming Pixar animation series "Win or Lose." The character will remain in the show, but the few lines of dialogue that reference the character's gender identity have been removed.

"When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline," a Disney spokesperson said.



Title: Biden's daunting exit list: Gaza ceasefire, Ukraine aid, US Steel

He may pursue a limited security pact with Saudi Arabia, strengthening both against Iran

US President Joe Biden delivers remarks during the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington, DC, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz/File Photo

With a month left in the White House, US President Joe Biden has a long list of foreign and domestic policy actions he hopes to get done before president-elect Donald Trump assumes office, where the Republican is expected to try to reverse much of Biden's record.

Atop Biden's list are final, hurried pushes to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of American hostages abroad, distribute more aid to Ukraine, issue more pardons to non-violent criminals, forgive more student debt, release more funding for semiconductor chip production, and potentially block the sale of US Steel, according to White House aides and an internal memo seen by Reuters.

The list reflects how drawn-out and bloody wars in Europe and the Middle East on Biden's watch hijacked his legacy overseas, where he promised to restore and strengthen American leadership. Simultaneously, Democrats' election failures have shaken his legacy at home.

Biden, 82, promised to remake the US economy as president and clocked significant legislative wins in the first half of his four-year term, including the bipartisan infrastructure and inflation reduction bills.

But major lawmaking essentially ground to a halt after Republicans won the House in the 2022 midterm elections. Some Democrats blame Biden's refusal to step aside as candidate for their colossal defeats this November, most notably Vice President Kamala Harris' loss to Trump in every battleground state.

Securing a ceasefire deal in the war between Israel and Hamas that Palestinian authorities say has killed over 45,000 in Gaza, and bolstering Ukraine's defence in its nearly 3-year war with Russia are top priorities, White House officials say.

"This is not an uncommon thing for presidents at the end of their term or in the transition period if there are unresolved conflicts," said US presidential historian and Vanderbilt University professor Thomas Alan Schwartz.

A ceasefire deal in the 14-month war in Gaza could happen in the coming days, with the administration making a forceful diplomatic push this week. Similar hopeful discussions have flopped in the past, but the scope of this agreement is narrower.

Biden is also rushing weapons to Ukraine for fear that Trump, who often boasts of his close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, may be less likely to aid Ukraine's war effort.

He may also seek to close a stripped-down security pact with Saudi Arabia, which could strengthen both countries against Iran. The oil-rich Middle East power rejected Biden's condition of normalising relations with Israel and consequently abandoned talks of a binding mutual defence treaty with the US.

HOME FRONT

Biden's final domestic policy sprint will include distributing the remaining funds he secured through his landmark investment legislation, including high-speed internet funding to states, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters. In January, he is expected to announce a $2,000 prescription drug cost cap for Medicare recipients, and he will work with Congress to get federal judges confirmed until the last minute, the memo said.

The stage is all but set for Biden to block the sale of US Steel to an overseas buyer as soon as next week, something he has promised to do for nearly a year as he touts his mission to keep and expand manufacturing on US soil.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which reviews deals for national security risks, has a Dec 23 deadline to approve the deal, extend the review, or recommend Biden scuttle it.

On this issue, Biden and Trump agree: Trump said earlier this month that he would block the deal.

Other priorities involve policies or programmes that Trump is likely to oppose, including efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change.

The Treasury Department is expected as soon as today to issue its highly contested final guidance for the Inflation Reduction Act's tax credit for hydrogen projects, and Biden officials are conferring with EU peers on locking in methane emissions before Trump takes office.

The Commerce Department is rapidly awarding its remaining funds to boost US semiconductor chip manufacturing, which were allocated by Biden's CHIPS and Science Act. Trump has criticised the programme's price tag, casting its future in doubt.



Title: Sweden ends funding for UN Palestinian aid agency UNRWA

It plans to increase Gaza aid to 800 million crowns next year

A Palestinian carries an aid box distributed by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Deir Al-Balah, central Gaza Strip, Nov 4, 2024. REUTERS/Ramadan Abed/File Photo

Sweden will no longer fund the UN refugee agency for Palestinians (UNRWA) and will instead provide increased overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza via other channels, the Nordic country said on Friday.

Israel, which says it will ban UNRWA operations in the country from late January, accuses the agency of being involved in the Oct 7, 2023, Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the 14-month-old war in Gaza.

Sweden's decision was in response to the Israeli ban, as it will make channelling aid via the agency more difficult, the country's aid minister, Benjamin Dousa, said.

"Large parts of UNRWA's operations in Gaza are either going to be severely weakened or completely impossible," Dousa told Reuters. "For the government, the most important thing is that support gets through."

Dousa said Sweden "in no way" supported Israel's law and had repeatedly expressed its criticism. "Israel must do much more to ensure humanitarian access to Gaza," he said.

The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA's operations in the West Bank and Gaza but it will have a severe impact on UNRWA's ability to work. Top UN officials describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza's aid response.

Sweden plans to lift its overall humanitarian aid to Gaza next year to 800 million Swedish crowns ($72.44 million) from 451 million spent this year, the foreign ministry said.

Aid will flow via several organisations including the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN Populations Fund (UNFPA) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the ministry added.

The Palestinian embassy in Stockholm said in a statement: "We reject the idea of finding alternatives to UNRWA, which has a special mandate to provide services to Palestinian refugees." The refugee population relies on UNRWA healthcare, education, emergency relief and humanitarian assistance, it said.

The UN General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month, demanding Israel respect the agency's mandate and "enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction".

UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X: "Defunding UNRWA now will undermine decades of Sweden’s investment in human development including by denying access to education for hundreds of thousands of girls and boys across the region."

Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Sharren Haskel thanked Dousa for a meeting they had this week and for Sweden's decision to drop its support for UNRWA.

"There are worthy and viable alternatives for humanitarian aid, and I appreciate the willingness to listen and adopt a different approach," she said.

The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved in the Oct 7, 2023 Hamas attack and had been fired. A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job.



Title: Israel's Netanyahu eyes Iran after triumphs over Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria

As Iran weakens, Israel rises as the dominant regional power

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks at a ceremony for military combat officers at an army base near Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, Oct 31, 2024. REUTERS/Amir Cohen/File Photo

2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his country's arch foe Iran.

The veteran Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals: tightening his military control over Gaza, thwarting Iran's nuclear ambitions and capitalising on the dismantling of Tehran's allies -- Palestinian Hamas, Lebanon's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

Assad's collapse, the elimination of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu.

Without Syria, the alliances Tehran has nurtured for decades have unravelled. As Iran's influence weakens, Israel is emerging as the dominant power in the region.

Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran's nuclear ambitions and missile programme, applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel.

Iran, Middle East observers say, faces a stark choice: Either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations.

"Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack, particularly against its nuclear programme," said Joost R. Hiltermann, Middle East and North Africa Program Director of the International Crisis Group. "I wouldn't be surprised if Israel did it, but that doesn't get rid of Iran."

"If they (Iranians) do not back down, Trump and Netanyahu might strike, as nothing now prevents them," said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib, referring to President-elect Donald Trump. Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership, having demonstrated pragmatism in the past, may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation.

Trump, who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear goals, is likely to step up sanctions on Iran's oil industry, despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy.

DEFINING LEGACY

Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza, Netanyahu's long-running corruption trial, which resumed in December, will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy. For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza war in 2023, Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis.

With 2024 coming to an end, the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old Gaza war and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave, according to sources close to the negotiations.

But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority (PA), which Netanyahu rejects. Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over.

"Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising. Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza," Khatib told Reuters.

For Netanyahu, such a result would mark a strategic victory, consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision: Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel's long-term control over Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state.

The Gaza war erupted when Hamas militants stormed into Israel on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people, health authorities there say, displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins.

While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities, it would not address the deeper, decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Arab and Western officials say.

On the ground, prospects for a Palestinian state, an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu's government, have become increasingly unattainable, with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views.

A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic "No Future in Palestine" - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians.

Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict, "any resolution would be on Israel’s terms," said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group.

"It's over when it comes to a Palestinian state, but the Palestinians are still there," he said.

In Trump's previous term, Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins, including the “Deal of the Century,” a US-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The plan, if implemented, marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations.

It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank, including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley. It would also recognise Jerusalem as the "undivided capital of Israel" - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital, a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions.

SYRIA AT CRITICAL CROSSROADS

Across the border from Israel, Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) rebel forces, led by Ahmad al-Sharaa, better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani.

Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria, where the military and police force have collapsed. HTS has to rebuild from scratch, securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from jihadists, remnants of the Assad regime, and other adversaries.

The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS, once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy, reverts to a rigid Islamist ideology.

The group’s ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria, home to diverse communities of Sunnis, Shi'ites, Alawites, Kurds, Druze and Christians.

"If they succeed in that (Syrian nationalism) there's hope for Syria, but if they revert to their comfort zone of quite strongly ideologically-tainted Islamism, then it's going to be divisive in Syria," said Hiltermann.

"You could have chaos and a weak Syria for a long time, just like we saw in Libya and Iraq."



Title: Elon Musk gives nod to German far-right party as election looms

He backs multiple anti-immigration parties in Europe

Tesla CEO and X owner Elon Musk listens as US President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with House Republicans at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Washington, DC, US on Nov 13, 2024. ALLISON ROBBERT/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo

US billionaire Elon Musk, set to join President-elect Donald Trump's administration as an outside adviser, waded into Germany's election campaign on Friday, calling the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) the country's saviour.

The AfD is running second in opinion polls and might be able to thwart either a centre-right or centre-left majority, but Germany's mainstream, more centrist parties have vowed to shun support from the AfD at national level.

Europe's leading power is expected to vote on Feb 23 after a centre-left coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz collapsed.

"Only the AfD can save Germany," Musk wrote in a post on his social media platform, X.

Musk, the world's richest person, has already expressed support for other anti-immigration parties across Europe.

The German government said it had taken note of Musk's post but declined to give any further comment at its regular press conference.

Musk reposted a message by German right-wing influencer Naomi Seibt that criticised Friedrich Merz, chancellor candidate for the conservatives, who are comfortably ahead in surveys.

Matthias Miersch, secretary-general of Scholz's Social Democrats, told the media outlet t-online that Germany did not need foreign influences or "Trumpism", adding: "Stay out, Elon."

Musk had already voiced support for the AfD last year, when he attacked the German government's handling of illegal migration.

Last month, Musk called for the sacking of Italian judges who had questioned the legality of government measures to prevent irregular immigration.

And this week Nigel Farage, leader of Britain's right-wing Reform UK party and friend of Trump, posted a photo of himself and Reform's treasurer meeting Musk at Trump's Florida residence, and said he was in talks with Musk about financial support.



Title: Top US officials in Damascus to meet new Syrian rulers, State Department says

The delegation also seeks information on a US journalist, missing since 2012

Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani speaks to a crowd at Ummayad Mosque in Damascus, after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad, Syria Dec 8, 2024. REUTERS/Mahmoud Hassano//File Photo

Top US diplomats were expected to hold Washington's first in-person official meetings with Syria's new de facto rulers led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Damascus on Friday, hoping to gauge what plans the former al Qaeda affiliate has for the country.

The United States, other Western powers and many Syrians were glad to see militias led by HTS topple President Bashar al-Assad, but it is not clear whether the group will impose strict Islamic rule or show flexibility and move towards democracy.

The US officials from the Biden administration will discuss with HTS representatives a set of principles such as inclusivity and respect for the rights of minorities that Washington wants included in Syria's political transition, a State Department spokesperson said.

The State Department's top Middle East diplomat Barbara Leaf, Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and Senior Advisor Daniel Rubinstein, who is tasked with leading the Department's Syria engagement, are the first US diplomats to travel to Damascus since Assad's rule collapsed.

Western governments are gradually opening channels to HTS and its leader Ahmed al-Sharaa, a former commander of an al Qaeda franchise in Syria, and starting to debate whether to remove the group's terrorist designation. The US delegation's trip follows contacts with France and Britain in recent days.

The delegation will also seek information about US journalist Austin Tice, who was taken captive during a reporting trip to Syria in August 2012, and other American citizens who went missing under Assad.

"They will be engaging directly with the Syrian people, including members of civil society, activists, members of different communities, and other Syrian voices about their vision for the future of their country and how the United States can help support them," the State Department spokesperson said.

"They also plan to meet with representatives of HTS to discuss transition principles endorsed by the United States and regional partners in Aqaba, Jordan."

The US cut diplomatic ties with Syria and shut its embassy in the capital Damascus in 2012.

SYRIANS GATHER

Several hundred Syrians gathered in Damascus' central Ummayad Square on Thursday to call for a democratic, secular state that ensures equal rights for women. It was the first such demonstration since Assad's ouster.

There is widespread apprehension among Syrians that the new administration will gravitate towards hardline religious rule, marginalising minority communities and excluding women from public life.

Obaida Arnout, a spokesperson for the Syrian transitional government, said this week that women's "biological and physiological nature" rendered them unfit for certain governmental jobs.

The UN human rights office will send a small team of human rights officers to Syria next week for the first time in years following the overthrow of Assad, UN spokesperson Thameen Al-Kheetan told a press briefing in Geneva.

As part of the takeover, rebels have flung open prisons and government offices, raising fresh hopes for accountability for crimes committed during Syria's civil war.

Syrian rebels seized control of Damascus on Dec 8, forcing Assad to flee after more than 13 years of civil war and ending his family's decades-long rule.

The rebel sweep ended a war that killed hundreds of thousands, caused one of the biggest refugee crises of modern times and left cities bombed to rubble, countryside depopulated and the economy hollowed out by global sanctions.

The lightning offensive raised questions over whether the rebels will be able to ensure an orderly transition.

Forces under the command of al-Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - replaced the Assad family rule with a three-month caretaker government that had been ruling a rebel enclave in Syria's northwestern province of Idlib.

Washington designated al-Sharaa a terrorist in 2013, saying al Qaeda in Iraq had tasked him with overthrowing Assad's rule and establishing Islamic sharia law in Syria. It said the Nusra Front, the predecessor of HTS, carried out suicide attacks that killed civilians and espoused a violent sectarian vision.

Golani said the terrorist designation was unfair and that he opposed the killing of innocent people.

Washington remains concerned that ISIS could seize the moment to resurrect and also wants to avoid any clashes in the country's northeast between Turkey-backed rebel factions and US-allied Kurdish militia.



Title: Georgia to award medals to officials sanctioned by West for protest crackdown

11 officials are set to receive one of Georgia's highest civilian medals

Georgia's Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze leaves after a briefing amid the political crisis, triggered by the government's decision to suspend talks on joining the European Union, in Tbilisi, Georgia Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Irakli Gedenidze

Five Georgian interior ministry officials who were sanctioned by the West for their role in a violent crackdown on pro-EU protesters will be presented with one of the country's highest honours, Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze said on Friday.

Georgians have been protesting daily for three weeks since the government announced it was halting talks on joining the European Union - a longstanding and widely popular national goal - until 2028.

The officials to be decorated include Interior Minister Vakhtang Gomelauri and heads of the ministry's Special Tasks Department, which is accused of orchestrating beatings of opposition politicians and journalists, who were sanctioned by the US and UK on Thursday.

Gomelauri, a former bodyguard to Bidzina Ivanishvili, a billionaire ex-prime minister widely seen as Georgia's paramount leader, was also promoted on Friday to deputy prime minister.

Police have used water cannon and tear gas against the crowds. Georgia's government has accused the demonstrators of trying to stage a revolution and says more than 150 police officers have been injured in clashes with protesters who have thrown fireworks at them.

Georgia had been seen as among the most democratic and pro-Western of the Soviet Union's successor states, but critics accuse it of moving in an increasingly authoritarian and pro-Russian direction in the past several years.

Kobakhidze told reporters the government would compensate any officials who suffered financial losses as a result of the "unjust decision" to impose Western sanctions.

He said the officials were being rewarded for "the honourable actions carried out by the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs." A total of 11 senior officials would be nominated for the Order of Honour, one of Georgia's highest civilian medals.



