Category: https://bdnews24.com/economy

Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



Title: Trump, not yet in office, already a figure in global economic policy

The US central bankers pencil in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS

The world's economic reckoning with the incoming Trump administration kicked off in earnest this week, with the US Federal Reserve flagging fewer rate cuts, a resignation in Canada over budgeting for tariffs and a heightened focus on cryptocurrencies.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday amid a busy year-end run of central bank meetings from Ottawa and Frankfurt to Tokyo and London that showed heightened uncertainty ahead of Donald Trump entering the White House in the new year.

Indeed, Fed officials not only dialled back projections for rate cuts in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were also trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

The upshot was US central bankers pencilled in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation.

That left Powell repeatedly urging "caution" around additional rate cuts from here, which triggered a slide in stock prices and a recalibration of market estimates for further easing. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and started to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said when asked if Trump's policies factored into officials' thinking.

"Some people said they didn't do so, and some people didn't say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that but some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their writing down more uncertainty around inflation."

In Asia, The Bank of Japan on Thursday kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"Uncertainty surrounding Japan's economy and prices remains high," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment, something BOJ officials may have to reckon with as the world's lone developed central bank is still trying to tighten policy.

Ahead of the Fed decision, rates had already been lowered last week by the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada, with both expected to deliver some additional easing in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Rate decisions are still due in the coming hours from central banks in Sweden, Norway and the United Kingdom.

UPHEAVAL

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Freeland said the threat of new US tariffs represented a grave danger after Trump last month warned he would issue levies on goods imported from Canada and Mexico of 25% unless the two neighbours limit the flow of migrants and fentanyl into the US.

"That means keeping our fiscal powder dry today, so we have the reserves we may need for a tariff war. That means eschewing costly political gimmicks, which we can ill afford," she wrote in a letter to Trudeau posted on X.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said the Fed had no legal authority to hold it, adding declaratively that it had no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

"That's the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed," Powell said.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: IMF agrees to release $650mn for Bangladesh’s fourth loan tranche

Bangladesh reaches agreement with the international lender on additional $750mn funding

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, has agreed to release $650 million for Bangladesh as part of the fourth tranche of its loan programme.

In addition, the international lender has reached a staff-level agreement with the Bangladesh to provide an extra $750 million in funding.

The additional financing aims to support the country’s foreign currency reserves, facilitate financial sector reforms, and help manage increasing economic pressures.

If approved by the IMF Executive Board, Bangladesh's total loan amount under the programme will increase from $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion.

As per the earlier plan, Bangladesh was scheduled to receive the loan in equal instalments by 2026.

The IMF team announced the agreement in a press release on Wednesday, following discussions with different government agencies, including the Bangladesh Bank, during their visit to Dhaka.

The release of the fourth tranche and approval of the new loan will depend on the decision of the IMF Executive Board, which will review the delegation's findings in an upcoming meeting.

The Washington-based financial institution concluded its meetings with policymakers and officials after a 13-strong delegation, headed by Chris Papageorgiou, assessed the implementation of policies during their visit from Dec 4 to Dec 18.

“Following the evaluation of the third tranche, we have reached an understanding with the Bangladeshi authorities on implementing the required policies. The final decision rests with the IMF Board,” said Chris.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha confirmed to bdnews24.com that the country will receive $650 million in the fourth tranche.



Title: Asia wary of Fed rate outlook, high bond yields

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway

Asian share markets were in a wary mood on Monday as surging bond yields challenged equity valuations, particularly for the richly priced tech sector, in a week packed with central bank meetings and major economic data.

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway.

The Federal Reserve will lead the pack on Wednesday with markets pricing a 96% probability it will cut rates by 25 basis points to a new range of 4.25% to 4.50%.

More important will be any guidance on future easing, including the "dot plot" forecasts of Fed members for rates over the next couple of years.

"We look for the updated dots to signal a median expectation for three cuts next year, down from four in the September projection," said JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli. "The median longer-run dot, which was 2.875% in September, we see moving up to 3% or maybe even 3.125%."

"That said, given the vagaries of trade and other policies next year, the signal from the dots may be even less useful than ordinarily."

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Yields on 10-year notes were up at 4.39%, having climbed 24 basis points last week alone, and threatening to breach a major bear target at 4.50%.

Rising yields make bonds more attractive versus equities while lifting the level that future cash flows are discounted at and possibly the cost of capital for companies.

Bitcoin grabbed the spotlight in early Asian trade on Monday, surging to a record high above $105,000 as it extended gains on bets Trump's return will usher in a cryptocurrency-friendly regulatory environment.

S&P 500 futures were a fraction lower on Monday, while Nasdaq futures eased 0.1%.

CHINA STRUGGLES

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed, having been flat last week.

Japan's Nikkei edged up 0.1%, while South Korea bounced 0.7% on pledges of government support.

China's blue chip index took a hit on Friday as investors awaited more detail on possible stimulus steps.

Over the weekend, an official at China's central bank said it had room to further cut the reserve requirement ratio, though credit numbers out last week showed past easing had done little to boost borrowing.

Figures on Chinese retail sales, industrial production and house prices for November are due out later Monday.

A range of surveys on global manufacturing are also due Monday, while US retail sales is due on Tuesday and a major inflation report on Friday.

The Bank of Japan, Bank of England and Norges Bank are expected to stand pat on Thursday, while the Riksbank is seen cutting rates and perhaps by 50 basis points.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

The dollar likewise held firm on the yen at 153.53 , having jumped almost 2.5% last week. The dollar index stood at 106.870 , after rising 0.9% last week.

The euro looked wobbly at $1.0508 , not helped by news ratings agency Moody's unexpectedly downgraded France on Friday.

The action came a few hours after French President Macron appointed veteran centrist Francois Bayrou as the country’s fourth premier in a year.

Political uncertainty was also clouding South Korea where the finance ministry vowed to support markets after President Yoon Suk Yeol was impeached.

A firm dollar combined with higher bond yields to restrain gold at $2,685 an ounce.

Bitcoin was having better luck, breaking above $105,000 for the first time and was last fetching $104,955.

Oil prices were supported around three-week highs by expectations that additional sanctions on Russia and Iran could tighten supplies.

Brent was down 2 cents at $74.47 a barrel, while US crude eased 12 cents to $71.17 per barrel.



Title: ADP progress rate for first 5 months sinks to lowest in 15 years

Experts blame the slowdown to political disruptions, power transition, a worsening law and order, and administrative reshuffles

Bangladesh’s development work, which slowed down during the power transition, has not regained momentum, impacting the implementation of the interim government’s ADP under a “go-slow” policy.

In the five months to November of the current 2024-25 fiscal year, ADP implementation reached 12.29 percent compared with 17.06 percent during the same period last year – marking a decline of 4.77 percentage points.

According to data released by the Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division, or IMED, of the planning ministry, ADP progress in the first five months has not been this low in the last 15 fiscal years.

Experts attribute the slowdown to disruptions caused by political movements, the power transition in August, a worsening law and order, and administrative reshuffles, which have collectively hindered the implementation of government development programmes.

According to the latest statistics released by the IMED, Tk 342.14 billion was spent under the ADP during the July-November period of the current fiscal year. This is significantly lower than the Tk 468.57 billion spent during the same period last fiscal year.

In percentage terms, the lowest ADP implementation rate was 16.84 percent in the 2015-16 fiscal year.

The deposed Awami League government had allocated roughly Tk 2.78 trillion for the ADP in the current fiscal year when the budget was passed.

After the Awami League was removed from power, the interim government prioritised project implementation based on necessity. As a result, funding for many projects initiated by the previous government was reduced, leading to the suspension of several ongoing projects. Consequently, overall ADP expenditure declined, according to relevant officials.

The latest IMED report reveals that the implementation rate for November was 4.40 percent, or Tk 122.36 billion, compared with 5.52 percent in November of the 2023-24 fiscal year. Typically, ADP spending is lower in the early months of a fiscal year, but political instability has further reduced the rate this time.

In the previous fiscal years—2020-21, 2021-22, and 2022-23—the ADP implementation rates for the first five months were 17.93 percent, 18.61 percent, and 18.41 percent, respectively.

Speaking at a workshop on Monday, Prof M Abu Yusuf of the Development Studies Department at Dhaka University noted that the decline in ADP implementation is "not surprising" given the current circumstances.

A member of the White Paper Committee on the economy, he added: "However, the interim government must consider how to provide relief to the general public during this period of high inflation."

Despite being in office for four months, Prof Yusuf noted, the government has yet to provide clear guidelines on how the annual programme of planned public sector projects should proceed, he added.

"If just 2.3 percent of the current fiscal year’s budget were reallocated to three key food-based social safety net programmes, it would double the allocation for these initiatives," he explained.

The three key programmes—combining urban and rural areas—are the Food-Friendly Programme, or FFP, Open Market Sales, or OMS, and Food for Work, or FFW.



Title: Future tax incentives for businesses will be reduced, says Salehuddin

The finance advisor points out the failure of regulatory bodies to act against rule-breakers

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has suggested reducing the incentives or tax breaks currently offered to businesses in the future.

"It is not possible to keep giving tax breaks forever. Logical taxes must be paid, and only reasonable exemptions will be granted,” he said during the annual conference of the International Business Forum of Bangladesh, or IBFB, in Dhaka on Sunday.

Referring to discussions with the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, Salehuddin said: “This morning, we had a meeting with the IMF. They are saying that tax exemptions must be reduced.”

The advisor said Bangladesh cricket all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan should have been fined two years ago for market manipulation.

He also pointed out that regulatory bodies such as Bangladesh Bank and the National Board of Revenue, or NBR, had failed to curb corruption.

“Banks, financial institutions, businessmen, and different organisations have broken the law, but no appropriate actions have been taken against them," said Salehuddin.

He added, "So, the blame cannot only be placed on politicians; these regulatory bodies are also at fault."

Salehuddin, the former governor of the Bangladesh Bank, highlighted that regulatory bodies had manipulated data on multiple occasions.

"Qualified people were not allowed to work in these areas. Even when they wanted to, their efforts were blocked by undue influence," he said.



Title: Italy sees weaker 2024 GDP, with industrial sector in trouble, economy minister says

The government in September set an unadjusted 1% growth target for this year

A view shows Milan's skyline during sunset in Milan, Italy, July 6, 2023. REUTERS

Italy will likely end this year with an annual economic growth rate of 0.7%, Economy Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti said on Thursday, warning that the industrial sector risked slumping.

Speaking at a political event promoted by Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's Brothers of Italy party, Giorgetti said the estimate was adjusted for the number of days worked.

The government in September set an unadjusted 1% growth target for this year.

Giorgetti said the disappointing performance of Germany's economy was weighing on Italy, adding that the industry sector was the main cause of concern for the government.

"We see signs of a nosedive," he said.

However, the GDP downward revision "doesn't change our public finance targets," the minister added.

Italy hopes to bring its deficit below the European Union's 3% of gross domestic product (GDP) ceiling in 2026 from 3.8 targeted this year.

Part of the lower-than-expected growth is also related to delays in spending European Union's post-COVID recovery funds, which has impacted the economy.

Italy is due to receive 194.4 billion euros ($203.81 billion) in cheap loans and grants from the bloc's Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) by 2026, more than any other state in absolute terms.

Speaking at the same event on Thursday, EU Affairs Minister Tommaso Foti said Italy wanted to replace some planned projects that Rome will be unable to complete by the 2026 deadline, with others that could be wrapped up within the allowed timeframe.

"We are going towards a rescheduling next February," Foti said.

To support the economy, the government wants to cut the IRES corporate tax for those companies that make investments and new hirings under certain conditions.

The measure has an estimated cost of around 400 million euros, which Giorgetti said Rome planned to cover by seeking an additional contributions from banks.

Italy expects to raise more than 5 billion euros from the financial sector over the next three years through a package of measures already included in the government's 2025 budget.



Title: US regulator's 'problem bank' list grows as industry profits dip

The total assets for banks on that list climbed $3.9 billion to $87.3 billion, the FDIC said

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp (FDIC) logo is seen in this photo.  www.investopedia.com

A top US bank regulator added two banks to its so-called "problem bank" list in the third quarter, while overall industry profits dipped 8.6%, the regulator said.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation typically does not identify firms that are added to the list, which includes banks that have received particularly low confidential scores from bank supervisors. FDIC Chairman Martin Gruenberg said the overall level of problem banks, now totaling 68 firms or 1.5% of all banks, is "not atypical."

The total assets for banks on that list climbed $3.9 billion to $87.3 billion, the FDIC said.

On Thursday, the FDIC reported quarterly profits for the banking sector were down slightly after banks enjoyed a one-time surge in the prior quarter.

The slightly lower profits were primarily due to the fact that banks reported one-time gains on equity security transactions in the second quarter. But those missing funds were partially offset by strong net interest income and growing revenue, the regulator said in its quarterly profit report. Bank profits were up slightly when compared with first-quarter numbers.

"The banking industry continued to show resilience in the third quarter. Net interest income and the net interest margin increased substantially this quarter," Gruenberg said in a prepared statement.

There were some signs of caution in the latest figures. The ratio of past-due or non-accrual loans in the commercial real estate sector ticked up to 2.07%, the highest level recorded since 2013, as borrowers continue to grapple with high levels of office vacancies following the COVID-19 pandemic.

Overall though, the latest FDIC report suggests stability in the banking sector. Net interest income rose by $4.5 billion in the quarter, the net interest margin was up for banks of all sizes, and deposits rose 1.1% to $194.6 billion. Unrealised losses on securities fell 29%, as overall interest rates fell.



Title: HSBC, World Bank's IFC launch $1bn trade finance programme for emerging markets

The deal aims to support cross-border trade and bolster exports in critical industries as economies face geopolitical tensions and trade barriers

A view of the logo of HSBC bank on a wall outside a branch in Mexico City, Mexico June 14, 2024. REUTERS

HSBC  and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFC) will jointly provide funding to trade transactions valued at up to $1 billion, in a move to help fill a gap in financing for emerging market trade.

IFC and HSBC said on Thursday they would equally share the risk on a portfolio of trade-related assets held by emerging-market banks in 20 countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East, according to a joint statement.

The deal aims to support cross-border trade and bolster exports in critical industries as economies face geopolitical tensions and trade barriers that could create uncertainty for supply chains and threaten economic growth.

"There is a substantial and ongoing trade-finance gap in emerging markets in the Asia-Pacific region," said Riccardo Puliti, IFC's regional vice president for Asia Pacific, in the statement.

Demand for trade finance far outpaces supply, especially in emerging markets, with the global trade finance gap last estimated at $2.5 trillion, according to a report from the Asian Development Bank.

"Reducing the trade finance gap and improving access to finance will be central to fostering growth and sustainability across Asia and the region's supply chains," said Aditya Gahlaut, co-head of global trade solutions, Asia Pacific, at HSBC in the statement.

The new facility is set up under IFC's Global Trade Liquidity Program, which has supported more than $80 billion in global trade volume through nearly 30,000 transactions over the past 20 years.



Title: ADB approves $600mn loan for Bangladesh amid revenue crunch

The loan will help improve transparency and accountability while boosting domestic resource mobilisation, says the agency

The Asian Development Bank, or ADB, has approved a $600 million loan to support Bangladesh as it navigates a challenging period in revenue collection.

This loan will support efforts to improve domestic resource mobilisation, alongside other initiatives to strengthen the country’s economic framework.

On Wednesday, Govinda Bar, the team leader of external affairs at ADB's Bangladesh Resident Mission, shared details of the loan authorisation in a statement.

With a tax-to-GDP ratio of only 7.4 percent, the lowest in the world, Bangladesh is grappling with major hurdles in revenue collection.

This is referred to as “policy-based” lending, aimed at strengthening the country's domestic resource management, improving public investment efficiency, supporting structural reforms for private sector development, and enhancing transparency and good governance.

The loan programme includes initiatives for digitalisation, “green” projects, rationalising tax incentives, and boosting taxpayer morale.

One of the objectives is to enhance the transparency and efficiency of government investment projects through digitalisation.

The loan aims to simplify the country’s regulatory environment, promote private sector development, and encourage foreign direct investment by offering “equal benefits” for all.

To facilitate business operations, an integrated online platform has been created, which will offer over 130 services.

ADB Regional Lead Economist Aminur Rahman said, "Following the political shift in Bangladesh, ADB is supporting the country’s rapid development efforts with this loan.”

“Following the political shift in Bangladesh, ADB is committed to supporting the country’s rapid development through this loan.

He added, “The reform goals will focus on improving economic management, governance, and competitiveness.”



Title: Why didn't 'all-knowing' Bangladesh Bank, BFIU stop money being smuggled out of the country?

Experts blame the regulators for turning a blind eye despite clear signs of financial misconduct

Fresh findings from the interim government’s White Paper Committee on money laundering have given rise to questions about why Bangladesh Bank and the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit, or BFIU, the nation’s top financial watchdogs, did not step in to stop the illicit flow of funds.

Despite existing laws and regulations, money laundering through the banking sector has risen over time, and financial sector experts believe the two regulatory bodies cannot dodge the blame for this.

Experts argue that it was the responsibility of these agencies to curb illicit financial flows.

However, instead of stepping in, they allegedly aided in the laundering process.

Transparency International Bangladesh, or TIB, Executive Director Iftekharuzzaman directly blamed officials of both organisations for their failure, suggesting that their negligence outweighed any legal weaknesses.

The white paper submitted to Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus on Dec 1 estimates that during the 15-year reign of the ousted Awami League government, around $16 billion was laundered out of the country annually.

The committee, set up to assess the state of the nation’s economy, said $240 billion, equivalent to Tk 28.8 trillion at current exchange rates, was siphoned out of the country during the Awami League’s three consecutive terms in power.

The BFIU, tasked with tackling irregularities in the financial sector and preventing money laundering, failed to act effectively, despite being aware of the scale of the crime.

The unit’s former chief Abu Hena Md Razee Hassan, who also served as deputy governor of Bangladesh Bank, pointed to political pressure and restrictions from senior officials as key obstacles that hindered his department’s efforts to combat these activities.

Al Amin, a professor in the Department of Accounting and Information Systems at Dhaka University, told bdnews24.com: “International research group Global Financial Integrity [GFI] says money laundering increased because of the corrupt actions of regulators, government officials, businesspeople, and bureaucrats. The whole system has been working together. The regulators and officials definitely know who are behind it."

Bankers and industry insiders have claimed that most money laundering occurred via banking channels, raising concerns about whether the central bank’s measures were sufficient to tackle the issue.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Sikha told bdnews24.com, “It’s not possible to comment on such a major issue immediately. If you submit a written query, we can respond after consulting with the governor.”

bdnews24.com submitted written questions over a week ago, but no response was received from the central bank as of Tuesday.

Governor Ahsan H Mansur also did not respond to attempts for comment.

NEW INITIATIVES

Since taking office, the interim administration has prioritised efforts to recover funds siphoned off to foreign countries.

Governor Mansur and several advisors have talked about efforts to retrieve these illicit funds.

Yunus has also sought help from the United Kingdom, the World Bank, and the European Union to recover these stolen assets.

A high-level inter-agency task force has been restructured under the governor's leadership.

The goal of the task force is to bring back assets that were smuggled out of the country and focus on asset management.

QUESTIONS RAISED OVER BFIU’S ACTIVITIES

The BFIU continued operating as a unit under the Bangladesh Bank even when the Awami League formed the government after the 2008 general election.

However, to comply with international pressure and requirements, the unit was made an independent body in 2012.

Despite this, since its establishment, the central bank has continued to provide BFIU with staffing, funding, and infrastructure support.

Even after becoming independent under the new legal framework, BFIU's first chief executive officer, or CEO, was Razee, the then deputy governor of Bangladesh Bank.

He remained the head of the organisation even when it was under the central bank.

Razee served as the head of BFIU until September 2021, extending his tenure multiple times.

This meant he held the position for most of the Awami League's three terms in office.

Regarding the failure to prevent large-scale money laundering, the former BFIU chief told bdnews24.com: "We were under constant pressure, facing restrictions from political and higher authorities. They dictated what could or couldn't be pursued, limiting our actions."

Without revealing who the "higher-ups" were, he added: "We had weaknesses in our legal and policy frameworks. The policy was weak, and there were flaws in implementation. Taking advantage of those weaknesses and exerting influence, money laundering was happening, and we could understand that."

Razee continued, “As regulators, we needed capacity building. We needed support from bankers. At one point, many banks didn’t have the staff to handle this. Now, capacity building has improved.”

Following the change in government, no new head has been appointed to BFIU, and an executive director is currently overseeing its operations.

Despite submitting written questions to the spokesperson of the central bank, no response was received within a week regarding the BFIU’s failure to prevent money laundering.

There had been dissatisfaction with the BFIU’s performance even during the Sheikh Hasina regime.

On Aug 11, 2016, the issue of the agency's performance was discussed in a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Ministry of Finance.

Abdur Razzak, the then chairman of the committee, told bdnews24.com: “In 2013, Tk 9.96 billion was laundered. Over the last decade, an average of Tk 5 billion was siphoned off each year. Money was being funnelled out through over-invoicing and under-invoicing. So, what exactly is the Financial Intelligence Unit doing?”

“We are deeply frustrated by this matter. Money is being laundered in Canada’s Begum Para, and we are third in Malaysia’s My Second Home [MM2H] programme. Yet, not a single person has been identified, and not even one case has been brought forward.”

The former agriculture minister said, “In May 2015, 400-500 tonnes of rice worth 800-1000 dollars were imported, yet on paper the figure was shown as 400-500 dollars. These issues need to be investigated.”

RISING MONEY LAUNDERING LINKED TO LOAN STRUCTURING?

There are primarily two methods through which money is laundered. The first involves over-invoicing and under-invoicing in import-export transactions, typically carried out through banking channels.

All legitimate transactions between Bangladesh and the outside world occur through these banking channels.

The second method involves hundi, where transactions happen at an individual level without any legal documents.

To curb money laundering, there’s no shortage of laws and government initiatives.

Alongside the measures taken by Bangladesh Bank, there is also a National Coordination Committee to tackle money laundering and prevent financing for terrorism.

The committee consists of the governor, the head of the BFIU, heads of financial regulators, the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission, or ACC, and secretaries from different ministries.

The Money Laundering Prevention Act (Amendment), 2015 was enacted to curb this issue, followed by the Money Laundering Prevention Rules, 2019.

However, these measures often remain on paper while money continues to be laundered at large.

Former BFIU head Razee also links this to the weak structure and limitations of human resources within Bangladesh Bank’s loan restructuring and rescheduling policies.

“Bangladesh Bank repeatedly creates policies for rescheduling defaulted loans. What did defaulters do after not paying? How could they launder the money if they didn’t have it? The failure to recover the loans is also a cause of the money being laundered," he said.

Masud Biswas, the former head of the BFIU, also held bankers accountable for the rise in money laundering.

During a press conference at the central bank in February, he said: “Bankers are to blame for this. They are not performing their duties properly.”

When asked why incidents of money laundering were increasing, Masud said: “80 percent of money laundering is trade-based [foreign trade, such as imports and exports]. The banking sector is the most vulnerable for money laundering.”

He continued, “Money laundering is not decreasing because of us. The responsibility for loan classification lies with the banks; they are the ones who handle it. If they don’t do it, how can it be done? Bangladesh Bank cannot inspect everything all the time. In many branches, inspections only happen every three years.”

However, Selim RF Hussain, chairman of the Association of Bankers Bangladesh, or ABB, and managing director of BRAC Bank, accused central bank officials of being responsible for the banking sector's issues.

During a discussion organised by the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management, or BIBM, in Dhaka’s Mirpur on Wednesday, he said: “Central bank officials interfere with promotions, transfers, and hiring in commercial banks, often favouring their own preferred individuals.”

Bangladesh Bank provides the opportunity to restructure and reschedule non-performing loans to show them as regular.

In 2015, under special consideration, non-performing loans worth nearly Tk 120 billion from 15 industrial groups were rescheduled.

At that time, the central bank said this concession of rescheduling loans with a 2 percent payment would be granted only once, in order to protect the industrial sector at the request of businesspeople.

However, later on, the Bangladesh Bank was forced to extend the rescheduling opportunity to loans exceeding Tk 5 billion in default, most of which have now turned into non-performing loans again.

By rescheduling repeatedly, defaulted loans are not shown as non-performing, pushing the total defaulted loans figure to Tk 2.88 trillion by September.

Economists in the country and international bodies have always raised concerns over the central bank's figures on bad loans.

The white paper on the economy reveals that the actual amount of non-performing loans stands at Tk 6.75 trillion.

Economists believe that a large portion of these non-performing loans has been laundered. This observation is further strengthened by the recent comments of the energy advisor.

Two major industrial groups, Beximco and S Alam, have borrowed massive amounts from the country's banking sector, with a large portion of these loans now on the verge of default.

During a seminar on Nov 30 organised by the Economic Reporters Forum, or ERF, Energy Advisor Fouzul Kabir Khan revealed that both companies have no money in their bank accounts.

“They can't even pay salaries, and their entire balance sheet is empty,” he added.

Beximco Group alone owes over Tk 270 billion to Janata Bank, and more than Tk 360 billion in total, including loans from other banks and bonds.

S Alam Group has taken loans worth Tk 800 billion from Islami Bank Bangladesh PLC, along with loans from other Shariah-based banks and National Bank.

When asked about the risk of loan defaults in the current situation, Ashish Kumar Nath, deputy general manager of S Alam Group’s Chittagong office, told bdnews24.com: “We are working to restore normal operations for all companies, including those dealing in consumer goods. However, some companies still have inactive bank accounts.”

“S Alam Group also participated in a meeting with the commerce advisor, where we requested support from the government," he added. "We also emphasised the need for administrative assistance to revive the businesses and repay the bank loans.”

ARE OFFICIALS ASLO INVOLVED?

Police’s Criminal Investigation Department, or CID, is investigating former BFUI head Masud over money laundering charges.

He resigned in August amid pressure after the fall of the Awami League government.

TIB boss Iftekharuzzaman said, “A huge amount of money has been laundered from the country, and both the central bank and BFUI have been complicit; they know everything.”

Razee argues that political and economic pressure prevented the complete prevention of money laundering.

Iftekharuzzaman believes that officials in these institutions also benefited from the crime, saying: "The recent investigations into Masud Biswas highlight that he too is being investigated for money laundering."

He added, "Just as the launderers have gained, so have the officials of the supporting agencies, who helped these criminals for personal gain."

“Pressure is always there, and it will remain.”

However, Iftekharuzzaman emphasised that not all officials were involved in the wrongdoing.

“There are honest and courageous officials,” he said, adding: “If necessary, their legal protection can be enhanced. However, those officials who benefited from facilitating money laundering must be held accountable and punished. This is achievable under the current government, and it would serve as a precedent for the future.”

When trying to get a response from Masud about his role in anti-money laundering actions during his tenure, no reply was received.

[Writing in English by Sheikh Fariha Bristy]



Title: BRICS have no interest in weakening USD, Indian foreign minister says

His remarks came a week after US President-elect Donald Trump had demanded that BRICS member countries commit to not creating a new currency

Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar speaks during the Mediterranean Dialogues conference in Rome, Italy, November 25, 2024. REUTERS

BRICS countries have no interest in weakening the US dollar at all, India's foreign minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said at an event in Qatar's capital Doha on Saturday.

His remarks came a week after US President-elect Donald Trump had demanded that BRICS member countries, which include major emerging economies like India, Russia and China, commit to not creating a new currency or supporting another currency that would replace the dollar or face 100% tariffs.



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



Title: IMF agrees to release $650mn for Bangladesh’s fourth loan tranche

Bangladesh reaches agreement with the international lender on additional $750mn funding

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, has agreed to release $650 million for Bangladesh as part of the fourth tranche of its loan programme.

In addition, the international lender has reached a staff-level agreement with the Bangladesh to provide an extra $750 million in funding.

The additional financing aims to support the country’s foreign currency reserves, facilitate financial sector reforms, and help manage increasing economic pressures.

If approved by the IMF Executive Board, Bangladesh's total loan amount under the programme will increase from $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion.

As per the earlier plan, Bangladesh was scheduled to receive the loan in equal instalments by 2026.

The IMF team announced the agreement in a press release on Wednesday, following discussions with different government agencies, including the Bangladesh Bank, during their visit to Dhaka.

The release of the fourth tranche and approval of the new loan will depend on the decision of the IMF Executive Board, which will review the delegation's findings in an upcoming meeting.

The Washington-based financial institution concluded its meetings with policymakers and officials after a 13-strong delegation, headed by Chris Papageorgiou, assessed the implementation of policies during their visit from Dec 4 to Dec 18.

“Following the evaluation of the third tranche, we have reached an understanding with the Bangladeshi authorities on implementing the required policies. The final decision rests with the IMF Board,” said Chris.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha confirmed to bdnews24.com that the country will receive $650 million in the fourth tranche.



Title: Trump, not yet in office, already a figure in global economic policy

The US central bankers pencil in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS

The world's economic reckoning with the incoming Trump administration kicked off in earnest this week, with the US Federal Reserve flagging fewer rate cuts, a resignation in Canada over budgeting for tariffs and a heightened focus on cryptocurrencies.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday amid a busy year-end run of central bank meetings from Ottawa and Frankfurt to Tokyo and London that showed heightened uncertainty ahead of Donald Trump entering the White House in the new year.

Indeed, Fed officials not only dialled back projections for rate cuts in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were also trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

The upshot was US central bankers pencilled in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation.

That left Powell repeatedly urging "caution" around additional rate cuts from here, which triggered a slide in stock prices and a recalibration of market estimates for further easing. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and started to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said when asked if Trump's policies factored into officials' thinking.

"Some people said they didn't do so, and some people didn't say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that but some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their writing down more uncertainty around inflation."

In Asia, The Bank of Japan on Thursday kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"Uncertainty surrounding Japan's economy and prices remains high," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment, something BOJ officials may have to reckon with as the world's lone developed central bank is still trying to tighten policy.

Ahead of the Fed decision, rates had already been lowered last week by the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada, with both expected to deliver some additional easing in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Rate decisions are still due in the coming hours from central banks in Sweden, Norway and the United Kingdom.

UPHEAVAL

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Freeland said the threat of new US tariffs represented a grave danger after Trump last month warned he would issue levies on goods imported from Canada and Mexico of 25% unless the two neighbours limit the flow of migrants and fentanyl into the US.

"That means keeping our fiscal powder dry today, so we have the reserves we may need for a tariff war. That means eschewing costly political gimmicks, which we can ill afford," she wrote in a letter to Trudeau posted on X.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said the Fed had no legal authority to hold it, adding declaratively that it had no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

"That's the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed," Powell said.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: Mayotte cyclone kills several hundred, maybe thousands, in worst storm in century

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital

A view shows damage caused by the Cyclone Chido, in Kaweni, Mayotte, France in this screengrab from a social media video, obtained by Reuters on December 14, 2024. @foulani2.00 via TikTok via REUTERS

Several hundred people and possibly even thousands may have been killed when the most powerful cyclone in nearly a century hit the French Indian Ocean archipelago of Mayotte, a senior local French official said on Sunday.

"I think there will certainly be several hundreds, maybe we will reach a thousand, even several thousands," prefect Francois-Xavier Bieuville said on local media channel Mayotte La 1ere.

Asked about the death toll from Cyclone Chido, the French interior ministry said "it will be difficult to account for all victims" and a figure could not be determined at this stage.

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital. It was the strongest storm in more than 90 years to hit the islands, the forecaster said.

"Honestly, what we are experiencing is a tragedy, you feel like you are in the aftermath of a nuclear war… I saw an entire neighborhood disappear," Mohamed Ishmael, a resident of Mayotte's capital Mamoudzou, told Reuters by phone.

Aerial footage shared by the French gendarmerie showed the wreckage of hundreds of makeshift houses strewn across the hills of one of Mayotte's islands, which have been a focal point for illegal immigration from nearby Comoros.

Local media images showed a mother pushing a newborn baby's crib along the flooded corridor of Mayotte's hospital. Capsized police boats lay onshore while coconut trees had crashed through the roofs of many buildings.

"My thoughts are with our compatriots in Mayotte, who have gone through the most horrific few hours, and who have, for some, lost everything, lost their lives," French President Emmanuel Macron said.

In the last few decades thousands of people have attempted to make the crossing from Comoros, off the coast of East Africa, to Mayotte, which has a higher standard of living and access to the French welfare system.

Over 100,000 undocumented migrants live in Mayotte, according to the French interior ministry.

It was difficult to ascertain the precise death toll after the cyclone, which also raised concerns about access to food, water and sanitation, authorities said.

"For the toll, it's going to be complicated, because Mayotte is a Muslim land where the dead are buried within 24 hours," a French interior ministry official said earlier.

Located nearly 8,000 km (5,000 miles) from Paris, Mayotte is significantly poorer than the rest of France and has grappled with gang violence and social unrest for decades.

More than three-quarters of the people in Mayotte live below the French poverty line. Tensions were stoked earlier this year by a water shortage.

An air bridge was being put in place from Reunion island, another French overseas territory on the other side of Madagascar, the government said.

The disaster is the first challenge faced by Prime Minister Francois Bayrou, days after he was named by Macron following the collapse of the previous government.

The cyclone went on to hit northern Mozambique on Sunday, but the full extent of the impact was not clear. Internet monitor NetBlocks said on X that heavy rain and winds had damaged power and telecommunications infrastructure.

In Comoros, two people were slightly injured, 24 displaced, and 21 homes were destroyed, authorities said.

France colonised Mayotte in 1843 and annexed the whole archipelago, including Comoros, in 1904.

In a 1974 referendum, 95% backed separation but 63% on Mayotte voted to stay French. Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli declared independence in 1975. Mayotte is still ruled from Paris.



Title: Monarch butterfly may gain threatened species status in US

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade

A monarch butterfly flutters in a field of marigolds, the traditional flower believed to guide the dead back to their loved ones, grown for use during Day of the Dead celebrations, in Boquillas, Mexico Oct 20, 2024. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril

The US Fish and Wildlife Service proposed listing the monarch butterfly as a threatened species on Tuesday, citing a significant decline in the iconic black and orange insects that has pushed them toward extinction.

WHY IT'S IMPORTANT

Monarch butterflies, known for migrating thousands of miles (km) across North America, have experienced a decades-long U.S. population decline due to habitat loss caused by human activities such as farming and urban development, widespread use of pesticides and climate change.

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade.

KEY QUOTE

"The iconic monarch butterfly is cherished across North America, captivating children and adults throughout its fascinating lifecycle," US FWS Director Martha Williams said in a statement.

"Despite its fragility, it is remarkably resilient, like many things in nature when we just give them a chance. Science shows that the monarch needs that chance, and this proposed listing invites and builds on unprecedented public participation in shaping monarch conservation efforts," she added

CONTEXT

Despite being recognised as needing federal protection under the Endangered Species Act four years ago, the monarch butterfly waited behind dozens of other species facing more immediate threats.

The ESA, signed into law in 1973, is credited with helping to save the bald eagle, California condor and numerous other animals and plants from extinction. ESA protection makes it illegal to kill or harm species classified as threatened or endangered without a special permit.

BY THE NUMBERS

The eastern migratory monarch population has declined by about 80% since the 1980s, while the western migratory population has dropped by more than 95%. The declines put the western populations at greater than 99% chance of extinction by 2080, according to the FWS.

The agency is proposing to designate 4,395 acres (1,780 hectares) in California as "critical habitat" for the butterflies. Federal agencies are prohibited from destroying or modifying areas with that designation.

WHAT'S NEXT

The public will have until March 12, 2025 to comment on the proposal to list the monarch butterfly. The service will then evaluate the comments and any additional information on the species to determine whether to list the monarch butterfly.



Title: Govt advises people with health issues to stay indoors as air pollution rises

Environment ministry urges mask use for those venturing outside amid alarming air quality

The air quality in Dhaka and its surrounding areas has fluctuated between "unhealthy" and "hazardous," prompting the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to advise individuals at risk to avoid going outside unless necessary.

The ministry recommended using masks for anyone needing to step outdoors in these conditions in a statement on Tuesday.

Citizens were also urged to monitor the environment department’s website for regular updates and take appropriate precautions.

Data from international air quality monitoring platform IQAir showed that Dhaka’s Air Quality Index, or AQI, stood at 193 at 6pm on Tuesday, categorised as "unhealthy."

At that time, Dhaka ranked second among cities with the worst air quality globally.

The AQI worsened after 10pm, remaining above 200—sometimes even exceeding 300—through to the following afternoon.

Air quality levels depend on the concentration of fine particulate matter, such as PM10 and PM2.5, measured in micrograms per cubic metre.

Other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-level ozone also contribute to the AQI.

An AQI score of 51-100 is considered "moderate" or "acceptable."

Scores between 101-150 are "unhealthy for sensitive groups."

Scores between 151-200 indicate "unhealthy" air.

Scores of 201-300 represent "very unhealthy" conditions.

Anything above 300 is deemed "hazardous" or "disastrous."

According to the environment department’s AQI data, Dhaka's air quality has mostly remained above 150 since Oct 12, except for 12 days when it dropped below this level.

During this 59-day period, the AQI exceeded 200 on 13 days.

Last Thursday, Dhaka's AQI hit 335.

To combat air pollution, the environment ministry has issued directives to halt the burning of solid waste, install covers and enclosures at construction sites, transport construction materials under covers, spray water at least twice daily around such sites, and bar the use of old or smoke-producing vehicles on the roads.

Brick kiln operators, factory owners, and the public have also been urged to comply with these measures.

The ministry emphasised that tackling air pollution requires collaborative efforts from the government and citizens.



Title: Extreme heat puts garment factory workers at risk, study shows

The study report urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves

Garment workers come out of a factory during the lunch break as factories remain open despite a countrywide lockdown, in Dhaka, Bangladesh, July 6, 2021. REUTERS

Workers in some of the world's biggest garment manufacturing hubs in Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Pakistan are increasingly exposed to extreme heat as climate change pushes temperatures up, a report found on Sunday, a problem multinational retailers and brands will have to help address.

New European Union regulations make retailers selling in the bloc, like Inditex, H&M and Nike, legally liable for conditions at their suppliers, putting pressure on them to help fund improvements to cool factories they source from.

In Dhaka, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh and Karachi, the number of days with "wet-bulb" temperatures - a measurement that accounts for air temperature as well as humidity - above 30.5 degrees Celsius jumped by 42% in 2020-2024 compared to 2005-2009, researchers at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute found.

Above that threshold, the International Labor Organisation recommends as much rest as work in any given hour to maintain safe core body temperature levels.

The report identified only three retailers - Nike, Levi's, and VF Corp - which specifically include protocols to protect workers from heat exhaustion in their supplier codes of conduct.

COMPANIES WARNED

"We've been talking to brands for ages now about this issue, and they're only now starting to turn their attention to it," Jason Judd, executive director at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute, told Reuters.

"If a brand or retailer knows that temperatures in a production area are excessively high or doing damage to worker health, then they're obligated under this new set of rules to do something about it," he added.

The EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive came into force in July and will start applying to large companies from mid-2027.

Fixes to cool factories could include better ventilation and water evaporative cooling systems, instead of energy-intensive and expensive air conditioning that would increase manufacturers' carbon emissions.

Some factory owners would likely be willing to make such investments themselves, given how heat stress significantly impacts productivity, Judd said, but the EU rules highlight brands' responsibility to address the issue too.

The report also urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves.

Extreme heat and flooding could erase $65 billion in apparel export earnings from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Pakistan and Vietnam by 2030, research from asset manager Schroders and the Global Labor Institute found last year.



Title: 2024 will be the hottest year on record, EU scientists say

The data comes two weeks after a $300bn deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient

This year will be the world's warmest since records began, with extraordinarily high temperatures expected to persist into at least the first few months of 2025, European Union scientists said on Monday.

The data from the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) comes two weeks after UN climate talks yielded a $300-billion deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient to cover the soaring cost of climate-related disasters.

C3S said data from January to November had confirmed 2024 is now certain to be the hottest year on record, and the first in which average global temperatures exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period.

The previous hottest year on record was 2023.

Extreme weather has swept around the world in 2024, with severe drought hitting Italy and South America, fatal floods in Nepal, Sudan and Europe, heatwaves in Mexico, Mali and Saudi Arabia that killed thousands, and disastrous cyclones in the US and the Philippines.

Scientific studies have confirmed the fingerprints of human-caused climate change on all of these disasters.

Last month ranked as the second-warmest November on record after November 2023.

"We're still in near-record-high territory for global temperatures, and that's likely to stay at least for the next few months," Copernicus climate researcher Julien Nicolas told Reuters.

Carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels are the main cause of climate change.

Cutting emissions to net zero - as many governments have pledged to eventually do - will stop global warming from getting worse. Yet despite these green pledges, global CO2 emissions are set to hit a record high this year.

Scientists are also monitoring whether the La Nina weather pattern - which involves the cooling of ocean surface temperatures - could form in 2025.

That could briefly cool global temperatures, though it would not halt the long-term underlying trend of warming caused by emissions. The world is currently in neutral conditions, after El Nino - La Nina's hotter counterpart - ended earlier this year.

"While 2025 might be slightly cooler than 2024, if a La Nina event develops, this does not mean temperatures will be 'safe' or 'normal'," said Friederike Otto, a senior lecturer at Imperial College London.

"We will still experience high temperatures, resulting in dangerous heatwaves, droughts, wildfires and tropical cyclones."

C3S' records go back to 1940, and are cross-checked with global temperature records going back to 1850.



Title: World Court to open climate change hearings

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant

People walk through water at a flooded area affected by rising sea levels and land subsidence in North Jakarta, Indonesia, Nov 20, 2024. REUTERS/Willy Kurniawan

The United Nations' top court on Monday starts hearings on the legal obligation of countries to fight climate change and the consequences for states of contributing to global warming, the outcome of which could influence litigation worldwide.

Vanuatu, one of the small island states that spearheaded the effort to get the International Court of Justice to give a so-called advisory opinion, will be the first of over a hundred states and international organisations to give their views in two weeks of proceedings starting at 10am (0900 GMT).

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant. Experts say the court's eventual opinion on climate change will likely be cited in climate change-driven lawsuits in courts from Europe to Latin America and beyond.

The hearings begin a week after developing nations denounced as woefully inadequate an agreement reached at the COP29 summit for countries to provide $300 billion in annual climate finance by 2035 to help poorer nations cope with climate change.

Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu's special envoy for climate change and the environment, said it was imperative fossil fuels be phased out and more money provided to poorer nations bearing the brunt of climate change, such as his Pacific island nation.

"We would like cumulative historical emissions that cause significant harm to the climate system to be declared unlawful," Regenvanu told Reuters.

Aside from small island states and numerous Western and developing countries, the court will also hear from the world's top two emitters of greenhouse gases, the United States and China. Oil producer group OPEC will also give its views.

The hearings will run until Dec 13. The court's opinion is expected to be delivered in 2025.



