Category: https://bdnews24.com/budget2024-25

Title: Will NBR’s revenue collection in June hit Tk 856bn to meet FY24 target?

In the last month of the financial year, the NBR needs nearly three times higher than the 11-month average to achieve the target

ঢাকার আগারগাঁওয়ে উদ্বোধনের অপেক্ষায় দৃষ্টিনন্দন জাতীয় রাজস্ব বোর্ড ভবন। ছবি: আসিফ মাহমুদ অভি

The National Board of Revenue, or NBR, will have to collect Tk 856.22 billion in June to meet the revised target set for FY 2023-24.

In the budget for the outgoing fiscal year, former finance minister AHM Mustafa Kamal had initially set a revenue target of Tk 4.3 trillion for the NBR. This was later revised downward by Tk 200 billion to Tk 4.1 trillion.

In the first 11 months of the fiscal year, from July to May, the NBR collected Tk 3.24 trillion, averaging Tk 290 billion per month.

So, in the last month of the financial year, the NBR needs nearly three times higher than the 11-month average to achieve the target.

In the 11 months, the NBR’s collection has not been far from the target.

The revenue target from income tax, VAT, and customs was Tk 3.26 trillion. And, the NBR was only Tk 13.62 billion shy of it, achieving 99.58 percent of the target.

For the concluding month, the NBR has already set a target of Tk 842.6 billion, requiring a collection increase of about 1.5 percent from the previous months.

When asked whether it would be possible to meet the target in the last month, former NBR chairman Muhammad Abdul Mazid told bdnews24.com: "It’s not unusual to collect more than usual in the final month."

"The NBR's longstanding practice often involves early revenue collection from companies to achieve its targets, typically coordinated between July and August," he added.

Comparing the final month's such a high revenue target with the 11-month period, he said: "This is a revised revenue target. The NBR has set targets in this way, which they will be able to achieve.”

“We'll need to assess how much of the earlier budgeted target has been met. This will show a huge deficit by the fiscal year's end," Mazid said.

REVENUE GROWTH ON TRACK

Analysing the NBR's previous revenue collection trends, it is evident that tax administration typically meets around 90 percent of its targets.

However, this year, revenue collection has notably increased, leading officials to anticipate that the NBR will come very close to meeting the goal.

Member of NBR’s VAT implementation and IT, Moinul Khan, told bdnews24.com: "Compared with last year, we have collected more revenue. We have increased our capabilities and reduced the gaps. We have collected all the longstanding dues by improving intra-departmental communication over the years.”

"We think we'll get very close to meeting this year's revenue target. We're hopeful we'll achieve the VAT target, especially with the IMF's relaxed conditions," he added.

Although the government revised the revenue target to Tk 4.1 trillion, the International Monetary Fund conditions under a $$.7 billion loan programme require collecting Tk 4.005 trillion this fiscal year.

Bangladesh has agreed to increase the tax-GDP ratio by 0.5 percentage points this fiscal year to secure the loan.



Title: Maintaining growth while curbing inflation: Finance minister acknowledges balancing act

He warns that inflation control efforts could hinder economic growth

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali has told parliament the contractionary policies adopted to bring down inflation to 6.5 percent could slow down the pace of growth.

He shared the concerns in his closing remarks during the general discussion on the proposed budget for FY 2024-25 on Saturday.

To build a prosperous Smart Bangladesh by 2041, the minister addressed the challenge of balancing contradictory goals for economic stability, stressing the need for sustained high economic growth.

In the proposed budget, the finance minister has prioritised achieving macroeconomic stability alongside controlling inflation.

He outlined the contractionary measures in the monetary policy aimed at controlling inflation, including raising the repo rate to 8.5 percent, aligning bank interest rates with market dynamics, encouraging exports and boosting remittance income.

He also spoke about implementing the crawling peg method in the exchange rate regime to increase foreign currency reserves.

"Through our policy measures to cut the budget deficit, limit discretionary spending, and implement austerity across sectors, we aim to bring inflation down to 6.5 percent in the next fiscal year," said the minister.

However, Mahmood Ali is sceptical about maintaining growth momentum despite low inflation.

He said, “It is undeniable that this approach in the long run can slow down growth. We need sustained high growth to build a developed, prosperous and smart Bangladesh by 2041.”

He noted Bangladesh is now the 33rd largest economy in the world as of 2023, with an average GDP growth exceeding 6.7 percent over the past one and a half decades.

He expects the growth to reach 6.75 percent in the next fiscal year and 7.25 percent in the medium term.

The minister said there is a favourable environment for both domestic and foreign investment, aiming to maximise employment creation.

He claimed in 'Smart Bangladesh' by 2041, the per capita income would reach at least $12,500.

“Extreme poverty will be eradicated, and fewer than 3 percent of the population will be below the poverty line.”

MORE FUNDS FOR EDUCATION AND HEALTH

The finance minister said the proposed budget prioritises education and health, with allocations increased by 11.6 percent compared with the revised budget for FY 2023-24.

“The allocation for education and technology has been increased by nearly 25 percent, while the health sector sees a 39 percent increase,” said the minister.

"In the proposed budget, we have tried to provide necessary allocations to education, health, agriculture, local government and rural development, power, communication, science and technology, etc. with the aim of building a smart Bangladesh. At the same time, we have given due importance to ensuring food security,” he added.

The minister said the national customs policy should be reformed keeping in mind Bangladesh’s scheduled graduation from the least developed country bracket in 2026.

"Dependence on import duty is being reduced so that it helps reduce apathy towards exports," he said.

To boost revenue and make the tax administration more effective and taxpayer-friendly, the minister outlined significant legal framework changes and plans to automate revenue collection processes.

He said, "We have also focused on increasing the non-tax revenue collection as much as we have on tax revenue.”

"We have taken the initiative to create an online database of all non-tax revenue, or NTR items, detailing their fees, charges, or values and dates of assessment. This will rationalise the charges and fees for these services and increase non-tax revenue income," he added.



Title: Wealthy taxpayers get reprieve with maximum rate unchanged at 25%

A new slab for top earners will be added in FY 2025-26, with a 30 percent tax

The highest income tax rate has remained unchanged at 25 percent in the upcoming 2024-25 fiscal year, despite Finance Minister AH Mahmood Ali’s proposal to raise it to 30 percent.

Parliament passed the new Finance Bill on Saturday, incorporating the changes to ease the tax burden.

Top earners have received a one-year reprieve. The highest tax rate will be 30 percent from FY 2025-26.

Ali has not raised the tax-free income limit in the new budget despite inflationary pressure and financial crunch.

He also provided some relief to middle-income taxpayers through adjustments in the tax regime.

Under the Finance Act, income up to Tk 350,000 will not be taxed. The next Tk 100,000 of income will be taxed at a rate of 5 percent.

Previously, a 10 percent tax was imposed on income between Tk 450,000 and Tk 750,000. Now, it will be applicable for up to Tk 850,000 income.

For income from Tk 850,000 to Tk 1.35 million, the tax will be 15 percent. Previously, income from Tk 750,000 to Tk 1.15 million was taxed at 15 percent.

As per the 2023-24 fiscal year's budget, a 20 percent tax rate applies to income between Tk 1.15 million and Tk 1.65 million. This time, a 20 percent tax rate will apply to income between Tk 1.35 million and Tk 1.85 million.

Finally, a 25 percent tax rate will apply to any remaining income after Tk 1.85 million.



Title: Parliament passes Finance Bill 2024-25 with some changes

The budget for the upcoming fiscal year is expected to be passed on Sunday

Parliament has passed the Finance Bill for the upcoming 2024-25 fiscal year with some changes.

The Bill was passed by a voice vote during Saturday’s session presided over by Speaker Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury.

Several MPs proposed changes to the original Bill placed by Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali. He accepted some of the proposals.

Leader of the House Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Leader of the Opposition GM Quader took part in the general discussion on the proposed budget earlier.

The finance minister then delivered his closing speech on his first budget worth Tk 7.97 trillion.

The budget for the upcoming fiscal year is expected to be passed on Sunday. The MPs discussed the proposed budget for 11 days.

The Finance Bill has retained the proposed provision to allow legalisation of undisclosed income by paying a 15 percent tax amid a debate over the option.

No questions will be asked if the undisclosed income is used for buying land or flat by paying the tax. Such income can be in cash, company share, or other types of investments.

The maximum income tax has been kept unchanged at 25 percent instead of the proposed 30 percent.

The Finance Bill includes a provision exempting income from Universal Pension Scheme and premium paid for the scheme from tax.

A 15 percent tax has been imposed on capital income of companies, funds and trusts. In the proposed Bill, the provision was kept for individuals only.

The Finance Bill has also exempted government agencies from environmental surcharge for more than one car.

If someone shows at least 15 percent more income in the tax return than the previous year, they will not require audits.

Tax return has been made mandatory for renting a community centre or convention hall in city corporation areas. In the proposed Bill, the provision was applicable to such establishments across the country.



Title: IMF pressure fails to curtail tax exemptions amid ballooning budget deficit

The deficit for the coming fiscal year has been set at Tk 2.57 trillion. Tax exemptions over this period are nearly Tk 1.63 trillion

Although the Bangladesh government has agreed to many of the International Monetary Fund's conditions under its loan agreement, it has not yet acted on eliminating tax exemptions to boost revenue and reduce the widening budget deficit.

The finance minister's budget for the 2024-25 fiscal year entails a Tk 2.57 trillion deficit, while tax exemptions granted by the National Board of Revenue total nearly Tk 1.62 trillion. Little surprise that the NBR is struggling to meet its tax collection targets.

In the budget speech, the finance minister noted that tax exemptions could add up to Tk 1.5 trillion at the end of the current fiscal year. However, the Bangladesh Economic Review 2023-24 conducted by the Ministry of Finance says that the tax exemption at the end of the current financial year will be Tk 1.78 trillion.

If subsidies are added to this, the number reaches Tk 2.89 trillion, according to the review.

This means that the amount spent on subsidies and passed over in taxes is greater than the proposed budget deficit for the upcoming fiscal year.

Economists say that the capacity of the NBR should be increased along with increasing the tax collection target. In addition, exemptions should gradually be withdrawn from the sectors which have benefited from them for a long time.

The scope of these exemptions is driving up the size of the deficit. To fill the deficit, the government has to borrow. That borrowing puts huge pressure on the government to pay interest on that loan in subsequent years.

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali presented a budget for the coming fiscal year with an outlay of Tk 7.97 trillion. The revenue collection target from domestic sources has been fixed at Tk 5.41 trillion. This means Bangladesh will run up a deficit of Tk 2.57 trillion.

Bangladesh has one of the lowest tax-to-GDP ratios in the world. Currently, the tax revenue is about 8 percent of the gross domestic product or GDP. The Policy Research Institute think tank believes it should be pushed up to 15 percent.

Due to low tax revenue, Bangladesh collects high rates of import and supplementary duties.

Economists argue that this discourages investment. As investment is tepid, this stifles employment, which further dampens tax revenue.

Finance Minister Mahmood Ali spoke of reducing tax exemptions at various levels in the proposed budget to increase revenue. He said, “However, there is a likelihood of decreased income from import duty because of graduation from the LDC status, signing free or preferential trade agreements with various nations and organisations and compliance of conditions of WTO.

In this context, Income Tax and VAT (Value Added Tax) will be the main sources of financing.”

The Awami League government says it wants to reach the status of an upper middle-income country by 2031 and become a smart, prosperous and developed country by 2041. There seems little likelihood of this happening if the tax-to-GDP ratio does not rise.

The budget signals that Bangladesh has plans to reduce the deficit and phase out tax exemptions to raise revenue.

The maximum income tax on individuals has been raised from 25 percent to 30 percent.

WHAT IS A TAX EXEMPTION?

The Finance Department of the Ministry of Finance labels 'tax exemptions' as 'tax expenditure'.

“’Direct Tax Expenditure’ means rebates, exemptions, tax at a reduced rate and exclusion of income from computation of total taxable income,” the finance minister’s budget speech said.

“It is a type of tax subsidy. That is, if this subsidy was collected as tax, it would be added to the total tax collected and the amount of tax would increase. The total subsidy will also be included in the total subsidy along with other subsidies from the government

HOW MUCH IS EXEMPTED ANNUALLY?

The finance minister’s budget speech gave an idea of how much tax revenue is exempted annually.

According to data from the NBR, the total estimated amount of ‘direct expenditure’ was nearly Tk 1.29 trillion in the 2020-21 fiscal year, about Tk 1.16 trillion in the 2021-22 fiscal year – of which Tk 719.54 billion was at the company level and Tk 436.62 billion was at the natural person level.

Overall, the exemptions were 2.91 percent of the total GDP for the 2021-22 fiscal year, compared to 3.56 percent in the previous fiscal year.

The projected tax exemptions for 2023-24 stood at nearly Tk 1.49 trillion.

Former NBR official Shams Uddin, who led the preparation of the Direct Tax Expenditure report, told bdnews24.com, "The entirety of salaries paid to government and private sector workers is not taxed. If it was collected, the amount of revenue would have gone up.”

bdnews24.com

In Bangladesh, the tax-free income limit is Tk 350,000 per year. Apart from this the government also exempts tax from 50 percent of the basic salary or Tk 25,000 per month, or Tk 300,000 – whichever is less; a maximum of Tk 28,500 for housing costs for government workers; a maximum of 10 percent of salary or Tk 60,000 for medical expenses, and Tk 3,000 per month – or Tk 36,000 per year – on travel expenses.

According to this, the maximum tax exemption for employees is Tk 788,000.

In fiscal year 2021-22, Tk 23.72 billion was provided as export cash subsidy, Tk 2.84 billion for education, Tk 24.14 billion for dividends, and Tk 10.08 billion in the IT and software sector.

Another Tk 25.82 billion was discounted for poultry and fisheries, Tk 43.69 billion for the garments and textiles sector, Tk 40.22 billion for economic zones and hi-tech, Tk 76.11 billion for power and energy, Tk 117.09 billion for remittances, Tk 111.34 billion in microcredit, and Tk 121.23 billion in share capital gain.

The finance minister has partially withdrawn the exemptions on capital gains in the budget for the coming fiscal year. The finance minister has proposed a 15 percent tax rate if the profit is Tk 5 million at the individual level. However, it is not possible to say how much money will be added to the government’s coffers in this way as the stock market fell in response to the proposal.

Shams Uddin said, “Government officials have been given exemptions for allowances, airfares and entertainment tax. Some sectors and industries also have tax holidays. No tax is taken from them. These tax holidays are given to grow new sectors or to give special benefits.''

The direct tax expenditure report was prepared by combining the exemptions from the existing tax structure and the potential tax revenue collected, he said.

'NOT ALL TAX EXEMPTIONS SHOULD GO'

Taufiqul Islam Khan, a senior researcher at the Centre for Policy Dialogue or CPD, is against the complete removal of all tax exemptions.

"Every country in the world has a tax-free income limit. Why will the government put a tax on remittance? The income does not come from this country. These people are already paying their taxes abroad," he told bdnews24.com.

When asked how the government can increase its income, Taufiqul said: "Some sectors of the corporate organisations have been getting exemptions for years. The amount is high, and it should be withdrawn gradually."

While stating that the garment sector, private power generation plants, agriculture sector, corporate organisations, and export-focused industries leverage maximum tax exemptions, he emphasised, "The agriculture sector has been kept tax-free to benefit the farmers. A farmer doesn't earn much. But now, corporations are taking advantage of the tax exemption by investing in agriculture. Tax exemption should not be given to these corporations. It should be withdrawn."

"The budget should give out directives. An ongoing tax exemption cannot be lifted suddenly. The traders will need time to plan. They should be informed about the tax exemption amount beforehand."

NBR MISSES REVENUE TARGET

The government had set a target of collecting Tk 4.8 trillion from domestic sources in the financial year 2023-24. Of this, the NBR was tasked with collecting Tk 4.3 trillion.

However, the budget was revised, apprehending that it would be impossible to collect this amount.

Extrapolating the taxes collected in the first 10 months of the fiscal year, the 15.61 percent revenue growth is still insufficient to meet the growth target put forward in the revised budget for 2023-24 fiscal year.

To meet the revised target, the government needed to collect Tk 341.66 billion in revenue every month, but it was able to collect Tk 290 billion per month on an average.

NBR Chairman Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem fears that it may not be possible to collect this sum.

While speaking at a seminar on May 19, Muneem said, "Every year, the NBR is given higher targets, which are impossible to achieve."

"The tax collection process should be digitised and automated. Investing in this sector can increase the tax collection by Tk 100 for every Tk 0.22."

"STOP EXEMPTIONS AND RATIONALISE"

Zahid Hussain, the former lead economist at the World Bank's Dhaka office, told http://bdnews24.com: "The IMF has asked the government to stop tax leakage as one of its conditions for the loan. They want the government to minimise the tax expenditure. This is actually tax exemption."

"This means that the NBR is exempting the tax it was supposed to collect. However, the government said it has continued providing tax exemptions to increase revenue. But this always leaves a scope for corruption. They liaise with traders to decide the exemption rates."

Executive Director of CPD Fahmida Khatun told http://bdnews24.com, "One of the major problems in the economy is the increasing circulation of domestic resources. Revenues need to be increased against the GDP, which is not the case. So, the budget deficit is also increasing. The more the deficit increases, the more the government's debt rises."

According to Fahmida, people should be held accountable for tax evasion. "Tax breaks must be stopped. Rationalisation is needed here."

SHIFTING POWER FROM NBR TO PARLIAMENT

Bangladesh received its first instalment from the International Monetary Fund in February last year.

After the first tranche of the money was used up, the lender introduced new terms and conditions in its loan programme.

According to its reports, the IMF will evaluate the reforms to Bangladesh's financial sector in the loan programme in two categories.

One is the structural reforms of the financial sector, and the other is the achievement of targets set against various indicators on a day-to-day basis.

Although there has been some progress in the majority of the structural reforms, Bangladesh's foreign exchange management and revenue sectors are still not showing promising results.

Meeting the foreign exchange reserve and revenue collection targets set by the IMF was also an obstacle to getting the first and second loan instalments.

The IMF has also asked the government to minimise exemptions at all levels of income tax, VAT, and import duties in the reforms.

After the second tranche of the money was cleared, it was recommended that the NBR shift its power of tax expenditure to parliament.

Hussain said, "People are paying taxes. They have the right to know if a tax exemption exists for a special group or class. If the power is given to parliament, transparency and accountability will increase."

According to Muhammad Abdul Mazid, a former NBR chairman, revenue collection cannot be increased without addressing the complexity of various economic sectors.

"It is not even in the hands of the NBR. The VAT Act took more than a century to be implemented. The government needs to be decisive so that the collection capacity can be increased," he added.

[Writing in English by Ruhshabah Tabassum Huda]



Title: Ruling party MP wants option to legalise black money in stock market

He criticises the option, but adds that the opportunity can be allowed for investment in the troubled capital market

The ruling Awami League’s MP from Jamalpur-1 Noor Mohammed has criticised the option to legalise undisclosed income, but added the opportunity could be allowed if it is aimed at investments in the struggling capital market.

During the first general discussion on the proposed budget for the FY 2024-25 in the parliament on Tuesday, Noor said the government should not have treated honest taxpayers unfairly in its past initiatives to legalise so-called black money.

Reintroducing the option is “discriminatory and unethical”, he added.

Highlighting the downturn in the stock market over the past two months, he urged Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali to consider allowing the whitening of black money through investments in the stock market.

He also demanded the withdrawal of taxes related to the capital market.

The Jamalpur-1 MP appealed to the finance minister to reconsider the proposal for a 25 percent tax on imported vehicles for MPs.



Title: I loved 6.5% budget inflation target, but it’s tough to achieve: MA Mannan

The former planning minister discusses AH Mahmood Ali’s first national budget with bdnews24.com at Inside Out

MA Mannan admires Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali for his “courage and vision” in declaring a 6.5 percent inflation target in his first national budget, but says it will be “very difficult” to achieve.

The former planning minister discussed different aspects of the FY25 budget and the current state of Bangladesh’s economy with bdnews24.com at Inside Out, a video of which is available on the internet newspaper’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.

The government has not significantly cut spending on subsidies, but it has raised taxes to try and generate more revenue. But the public’s main focus is clear – what is being done about inflation?

What lies ahead? Will the last two difficult years of tightening belts and eye-watering prices ease any time soon?

Are the specifics of the budget sufficient and its targets realistic in an economy roiling under runaway inflation and global economic headwinds?

The public want to know what is being done about inflation, given that in the past two years, inflation has hovered around 10 percent. Mannan acknowledged it is a very important issue as long as it affects the people’s daily living.

“Let me begin by saying one thing. I salute the finance minister, his courage and his vision. But coming to 6.5 in one-year time, I would like to, I would love it, but I think it's going to be very difficult,” he said.

bdnews24.com asked what is making it so difficult for Bangladesh to manage to turn around like others with even higher inflation rates after the Ukraine war had begun.

Mannan said Bangladesh’s recovery cannot be as fast as that of the rich countries in the West because they are a mature economy.

“Their GDP and their production, their outputs don't increase so much as in our case. We have a growth rate of 5, 6, 7, 8 percent.

The United States, Canada, Britain cannot imagine that kind of growth. Two pr 1 percent  is enough for them, more than enough. Because their pot is already full.

DEFICIT, REVENUE AND BORROWING

The budget has been praised for keeping the deficit to GDP ratio below 5 percent. However, this amount is still Tk 2.5 trillion.

Asked if that seems like a massive amount, Mannan said keeping the deficit below 5 percent of the GDP is not a must.

“Fortunately or interestingly, our economy, our finance ministers have always remained below 5. But it's not a sort of a golden rule that you have to abide by. There is no such thing,” he said.

The finance minister has set an ambitious tax collection target for this budget even though the National Board of Revenue has struggled to collect the amount of taxes that have been targeted by budgets for several years. Asked if the task is huge for the NBR, Mannan said: “Since we are a growing economy, we are all short and we don't have much underground resources like oil and gas and this and that. We don't have much above ground also like the rich countries have. In the rich countries, their money also works for them.

“Dollar is the strongest in the world. Simply by being the main currency they earn so much. So we are up against very strong positions of the very rich countries.

“We have to fight against that. There is no way of fighting. We have to work harder and harder and harder.

“We know that we are not given proper wages. We know that we are short changed. We may feel bad but there is no alternative. We must give more attention to work,” he said.

To raise their local revenue, every government sets a very high ambition for the NBR because “we need more money”, the former minister remarked.

He said the NBR indeed fails to achieve the revenue targets, but setting the goal higher keeps the board under pressure so that they collect higher revenues.

And their deficiency leads to borrowing from domestic and foreign sources like banks, other countries and global and regional lenders.

“There’s no economy without borrowing in the world,” Mannan said.

“The only way to escape from borrowing is to do nothing – don't eat much, don't drink any water, sleep at home and do nothing. So you reduce and reduce and die. That we cannot do.”

“We want to live better. We want better houses, better medical care, better roads. All of us must work and work better, produce more,” he said.

Mannan added that only working will not help produce more, so people need to develop skills.

“That is the number one thing. And secondly, good civil servants, good engineers, good economists, good planners, and we borrow and we work together. That is simple.”



Title: MP Suhrab feels 15% tax to whiten black money is ‘too high’

He says the rate should be 5 percent to encourage more people to show their undisclosed income

Md Suhrab Uddin, an Awami League leader and independent MP from Kishoreganj-2, has demanded lowering the 15 percent tax for legalising undisclosed income without facing questions.

Suhrab does not agree to call it an option to launder dirty money and argues that the lower the tax on such income, the greater the possibility to legalise the funds.

Suhrab, convenor of Pakundia Upazila Awami League, discussed the issue in parliament on Sunday after Finance Minister AH Mahmood Ali reintroduced the provision in his proposed budget last week.

Economists and anti-corruption activists have decried the option, saying it will encourage corruption, and discourage the general public from paying up to 30 percent tax on their legal income.

But Suhrab said money is being smuggled out of the country, fuelling the dollar crisis, and this will not stop if there is no option to disclose previously undeclared income. “Actually it’s not whitening black money, but an option to show undisclosed income. There’s no problem even if the tax is 5 percent in this case. The lower the tax, the more undisclosed income will be disclosed,” he said.

“The 15 percent tax is too high. Many won’t show their undisclosed income at this tax rate. If the rate is lowered, the state’s revenue and investment opportunities will increase.”

“More options can be added here. No questions can be asked in case of land or machinery purchase,” Suhrab said.



Title: SANEM criticises govt's budget targets, calls for 2-year economic recovery plan

The non-profit research organisation proposes a 2-year plan for economic recovery

Researchers of the South Asian Network on Economic Modeling, or SANEM, have criticised the government's targets for controlling inflation and achieving growth in the proposed budget for the FY 2024-25, deeming them “unrealistic”.

The non-profit research organisation proposed a two-year plan for economic recovery during a post-budget press conference at Dhaka’s BRAC Centre on Saturday.

Their proposed initiatives are insufficient to control inflation, said SANEM Executive Director Selim Raihan.

Without appropriate actions, Bangladesh's economic condition will worsen by the end of the next fiscal year, he said.

Raihan also highlighted the increasing burden of foreign debt and the impending graduation from least developed country status.

This transition will introduce additional challenges to the existing ones, he said, emphasising the need for a strong focus on diversifying investments.

"The most important thing is to repay loans in foreign currency, so projects should be able to generate foreign currency. Otherwise, we can't make the payments.”

Diversifying exports is crucial for this, but the budget lacks initiatives for it, he said.

He added, "If we don't increase foreign investment, we'll face major problems repaying foreign loans."

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali presented a new fiscal plan worth Tk 7.97 trillion to parliament on Thursday.

Professor Raihan also said the proposed budget does not address economic challenges.

"We need to control inflation and stabilise the macroeconomy. Raising interest rates can hurt investment, yet we need investment for employment and growth. The budget doesn't offer solutions for these conflicting issues," he said.

The tax rate will add pressure on the lower and middle class, said SANEM boss Raihan.

Higher taxes on essentials like mobile phones will burden low-income people, while many wealthy individuals will avoid these taxes, he said.

The new budget proposes increasing the supplementary duty on mobile services from 15 percent to 20 percent and raising the value-added tax on SIM cards.

“Secondly, instead of prioritising direct revenue collection efforts, more focus has been placed on indirect methods because it is easier to implement than direct methods,” said Prof Raihan.

He strongly criticised the policy of allowing black money to be legalised by paying a 15 percent tax.

Raihan expressed concerns about the increasing burden of debt in the future and stressed the importance of properly evaluating megaprojects financed by loans.

At the press conference, Sayema Haque Bidisha, SANEM's research director and economics professor at Dhaka University, highlighted several current economic challenges.

She identified high inflation as a primary concern, alongside macroeconomic issues such as declining foreign currency reserves and the depreciation of the taka against the dollar.

The inflation target has been set at 6.5 percent in the new budget.

"We feel the budget could have been slightly smaller considering the economic situation and inflation," she said.

"For instance, the government’s borrowing plans from the banking system could further increase inflation. By reducing the budget deficit further, there was an opportunity to protect ordinary people from inflationary pressures by cutting domestic financing."

Professor Bidisha also said that as long as there is a difference between the bank rate and the open market rate, people will continue to use the informal money transfer system known as Hundi.

Bidisha believes that remittance senders should receive both financial and non-financial incentives.

"For instance, we can arrange for their social acceptance by providing separate facilities at the airport, giving special recognition in their villages, and offering various non-financial incentives."

She questioned the need for allocating 22 percent of the budget for the public administration sector for effective expenditure.

"We should focus more on the comfort and convenience of ordinary low- and middle-class people by reducing spending on luxuries such as luxury goods, imported items, foreign travel, and hospitality."



Title: Garment sector’s proposals overlooked in the budget, says BGMEA president

The proposed budget fails to address the key proposals from the key sector, claims SM Mannan Kochi

SM Mannan Kochi, president of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association, says that the proposed budget does not reflect the garment sector's proposals.

He made the statement during a joint press conference called to discuss the budget's implications at the BGMEA complex in Uttara on Saturday.

Two other associations in the garment sector, the Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers and Exporters Association and the Bangladesh Textile Mills Association were also in attendance.

In his written statement, BGMEA President Kochi said, "The budget statement highlights that controlling inflation will be the biggest challenge in the upcoming fiscal year due to the decline in foreign exchange reserves.”

“However, despite some policy support proposals for this key foreign exchange-earning sector [the garment sector], our main proposals to tackle the current tough situation have not been reflected in the budget."

Kochi claims the garment industry is in crisis due to falling product prices and a nearly 50 percent rise in local production costs over five years.

Claiming a sharp decline in garment export growth over the past 11 months, he said, "In May alone, it dropped by 17 percent. We increased wages by 56 percent, but our prices did not rise.”

“Instead, in the last 9 months, the prices of our main products have fallen by 8-18 percent”, he added.

BGMEA believes several proposals in the budget will not aid investment and job creation. These include:

- Increasing import duty on various construction materials used in steel building construction from 5 percent to 10 percent;

- Setting import duty on capital machinery and construction materials for factories in economic zones at 1 percent;

- Raising VAT on energy-efficient bulbs from 5 percent to 15 percent;

- Increasing the fee for new bond licences from Tk 50,000 to Tk 100,000 and the annual renewal fee from Tk 5,000 to Tk 10,000.

Kochi said, "We hoped for supportive policies for the garment industry in the budget. We had particularly deep expectations of reducing source tax to 5 percent and considering it as final taxation."

“Additionally, proposals like maintaining tax exemption on incentives, VAT exemption for essential industrial goods and services, resolving complexity in HS codes and weights, reducing income tax on ERQ from 20 percent to 10 percent, tax exemption on imports for the reinstallation of fire and safety equipment, and withdrawing 15 percent VAT on recycled fibre supplies for the garment industry were notably absent from the budget. This is disheartening for us.”

He pushed for consultation with stakeholders before implementing the Customs Act 2023 and called for the withdrawal of Section 171 of the Act.

He also presented a demand to maintain existing incentives in the garment sector until 2029, refrain from initiating any alternative incentives, implement an exit policy, and allocate special funds for food rationing until the same year

BKMEA Executive President Hatem said, "If advance income tax is required for exports, we request it is set at 1 percent to 0.5 percent. This requires returns and adjustments, for which we urge the government."

"We will face pressure if cash incentives are withdrawn. Therefore, we request the government's support," he added.

BTMA President Mohammad Ali Khokon commented that the government's decision not to provide gas-electricity connections and bank loans outside industrial areas would hinder growth and investment.

He said, "Production has decreased in factories in Gazipur and Narayanganj. Yet, the administration has instructed everyone to pay salaries and allowances properly."

Additionally, he emphasised the need for the government's attention in solving the ‘gas crisis’.



Title: Mahmood Ali optimistic his debut budget will ease economic strain

He appears in a post-budget press conference after his first national expenditure plan, focusing on inflation instead of traditional growth issues

For one and a half decades, AMA Muhith and AHM Mustafa Kamal took turns to face a barrage of scepticism in post-budget press conferences with many questioning feasibility of their growth targets, but that has not been the case for Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali.

In the former foreign minister’s first budget as finance minister, also the first of the Awami League government's fourth consecutive term, Ali has confronted a different beast: inflationary pressure.

This challenge has been acknowledged by no less a functionary than Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina herself as well as members of her cabinet and top officials.

Mahmood Ali, 81, an economics graduate who entered politics after retiring from his diplomatic career, set a modest 6.75 percent growth target after ambitious goals set over the past several years.

Speaking at the press conference on Friday, a day after presenting the budget in parliament, Ali sounded optimistic about achieving economic growth goals despite the pressures of nearly double-digit inflation.

He hopes to tame inflation to 6.5 percent.

The finance minister and his team at the press conference faced numerous questions about strategies to control inflation.

Finance Minister Ali says that top priority will be given to controlling inflation and this means that the government will continue to pursue contractionary policies.

State Minister for Finance Waseqa Ayesha Khan, State Minister for Commerce Ahasanul Islam Titu, Finance Secretary Md Khairuzzaman Mozumder and National Board of Revenue Chairman Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem, among others, joined him.

During the press conference, government ministers failed to outline a clear roadmap to address long-standing irregularities in the financial sector.

In contrast, NBR Chairman Muneem defended what critics have called an 'unrealistic' initiative to legalise undisclosed money.

After a four-year pause, the controversial provision found its way back to the budget for FY 2024-25 worth nearly Tk 7.97 trillion.

“Since inflation control is our highest priority, contractionary policies will continue for some more time,” Ali said at the post-budget press conference at the Osmani Memorial Auditorium in Dhaka.

However, the government will also be careful to ensure that growth does not suffer too much in the context of this policy stance, he said.

"All the necessary support has been continued so that our agriculture, industry and service sectors can continue their normal activities.”

“As a result, growth of 5.82 percent has been achieved in the current financial year despite a contractionary policy. We will be able to achieve 6.75 percent growth in the next fiscal year.”

He hoped these measures would start to bear fruit before 2025.

“We expect it [inflation]  to begin to decline by the end of this year. Let’s see. We must try. And, as you have noticed, we have reduced the scope of the budget a lot so that there is no pressure on prices.”

Ali intends to tamp down inflation even as reserves are dwindling, the global economy remains unstable, and the government is steadily increasing the price of electricity by withdrawing subsidies according to the conditions set by the International Monetary Fund under a $4.7 billion loan programme.

In the outgoing 2023-24 fiscal year, former finance minister Kamal announced a goal of restricting inflation to 6 percent. Later it was revised up to 7.5 percent. But even that goal could not be met.

According to data from the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, the 11-month average inflation rate in the current fiscal year until May stood at 9.73 percent, the highest in many years. This naturally means intense pressure on lower and middle-class families to afford daily necessities.

Economists are sceptical that the current finance minister will be able to stick to his confident target of 6.5 percent average inflation when it has remained above 9 percent for two years.

But Mahmood Ali remains optimistic.

"We have taken all the necessary steps to control inflation and are reviewing what further steps can be taken."

“The measures taken by us have made it possible to keep inflation at 9 percent. In the budget speech presented yesterday [Thursday], I mentioned the steps taken under the monetary policy and the fiscal policy."

Highlighting the context of inflation due to the Russia-Ukraine war after the COVID-19 pandemic, the finance minister said, “Inflation is still at 9 percent in our country. If the developed countries of the world increase interest rates in their countries to control inflation, the capital flow in our country will continue to decrease. At the same time, the volume of international trade also increased to a great extent.”

“This resulted in a large deficit in our current account balance. All in all, the pressure on the foreign exchange reserves increased and this led to a significant depreciation of the taka against foreign currencies. This is one of the main reasons why we have high inflation.”

"We have seen our neighbouring country Sri Lanka go bankrupt, and some have said Bangladesh is heading the same way. But we haven't. We're working on a continuous and dynamic model, which should be noted."

Eight cabinet members, an adviser to the prime minister, two government secretaries, the governor of Bangladesh Bank, and the NBR chairman attended the press conference.

The finance minister also let other ministers and officials answer questions related to their areas.

TITU EXPLAINS MEASURES TO REIN IN INFLATION

The officials were questioned on the feasibility of controlling inflation and the specific measures included in the budget to manage price levels.

In response, the state minister for commerce emphasised that addressing inflation is a key challenge outlined in the budget.

To alleviate some of the economic pressure, the tax on daily essentials such as rice, wheat, chickpeas, and lentils has been halved from 2 percent to 1 percent.

“The market is continually monitored by the Directorate of National Consumers Rights Protection. There has been no indication that the market has destabilised following the budget announcement,” he said.

Highlighting the government efforts to ease the inflationary pressure on people, Titu said, “We are providing subsidised food assistance to 10 million people through the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh and are considering proposals to expand this support in the future."

“Efforts are underway to establish permanent locations for TCB dealers and to ensure some products are sold at their original prices alongside subsidised items."

"Importantly, there have been no announcements about increasing commodity prices. On the contrary, we have announced reductions,"

Titu outlined several measures: reducing the import duty at source for some products from 2 percent to 1 percent, rationalising milk powder import duty, occasionally reducing commodity tax, withdrawing the minimum VAT on 10 products, lowering duty on 10 products, and eliminating supplementary duty on 19 products while reducing it on 172 products.

He noted that these tax reductions have been gradual, with other charges to be rationalised by the NBR over time.

‘NO NEED TO WORRY’ ABOUT BANK BORROWING

Finance Minister Ali targeted to secure funds to feed over 17 percent of the proposed Tk 7.97 trillion budget through bank loans.

The government will rely on bank loans to cover the large budget deficit, preferring local banks over low-interest foreign loans.

To fund this spending, he plans to raise Tk 5.41 trillion from the government revenue, which will be a big challenge to implement.

Despite this, the overall deficit between the government’s spending and revenue will be Tk 2.51 trillion, which is still 8 percent higher than the revised budget for the fiscal year 2023-24.

The deficit, at 4.6 percent of gross domestic product or GDP, is the lowest in the past decade.

Ali plans to borrow Tk 1.27 trillion from abroad and nearly Tk 1.61 trillion domestically. Of this, Tk 1.38 trillion will be from the banking sector, which is 17.25 percent of total government spending.

Finance Secretary Khairuzzaman Mozumder, accompanying Ali at the press conference, addressed concerns about government borrowings from banks exacerbating a liquidity crisis. He clarified that such borrowings are not the cause of liquidity issues within banks.

"We prioritise foreign loans as a standard approach, but as we graduate from the category of Least Developed Countries, these loans are decreasing. Consequently, we are increasingly turning to domestic sources," he explained.

Khairuzzaman also discussed the government's shift in borrowing strategy: "Historically, our focus was on savings certificates, which, while secure, come with higher interest costs. This is why we're steering away from them and toward utilising the banking system more."

The secretary revealed that the government's borrowing from banks in the current fiscal year exceeded its target by 18 percent. Despite this, Khairuzzaman is optimistic that the full Tk 1.37 trillion projected for borrowing in the upcoming financial year starting Jul 1 might not be necessary.

"When setting our targets, we anticipate a deficit since NBR may not meet the revenue goals. However, the actual amount borrowed from banks may be less if NBR's revenue collection exceeds expectations," he said.

Hasina's Finance Adviser Mashiur Rahman said that borrowing from banks is a common practice necessary to keep banks functioning.

“The problem of non-performing loans didn't happen overnight and has been influenced by various factors including bank weaknesses and economic conditions.

“The Awami League government is committed to reducing this issue.”

NBR BOSS DEFENDS OPPORTUNITY TO LEGALISE BLACK MONEY

The proposed budget includes a clause reintroducing the whitening of investments, such as black money, undisclosed assets, land, flats, and shares, by paying a 15 percent tax.

Criticising the decision, the Centre for Policy Dialogue or CPD said that offering a 15 percent tax rate to legalise black money is neither morally, nor economically justifiable, especially when the maximum tax rate for individuals is set at 30 percent.

The think tank argued that this penalises regular taxpayers.

Minister Ali asked NBR Chairman Muneem to respond to queries as reporters raised the issue at the press conference.

Despite defending the legalisation of black money, the NBR chairman could not say if anyone had done it before or how much money was involved.

Muneem explained, "When such amnesty is given, it's often perceived as a way to convert black money into white. However, this particular amnesty is aimed at addressing undisclosed assets that exist for various reasons."

He emphasised that many countries provide similar opportunities to declare assets that were previously unreported for unavoidable circumstances.

This measure, he claimed, was in response to demands from the business community and the common people, aiming to facilitate compliance and prevent money laundering.

Muneem said that black money typically does not benefit the national economy and is often spent abroad.

The government hopes to bring this money into the mainstream economy, encouraging individuals to declare their undisclosed assets and comply with tax regulations.

When asked if former inspector general of police Benazir Ahmed's black money could be legalised by paying a 15 percent tax, the NBR chairman responded that Benazir's case is currently under legal review.

The matter of Benazir Ahmed's assets has now fallen under criminal (legal) proceedings. Whether his assets can be legitimised by paying the 15 percent tax is now a legal question.”

GOVERNOR GAGGED

The tension between journalists and Governor Abdur Rouf Talukder over restrictions on media access to the Bangladesh Bank spilled into the post-budget press conference.

His move sparked outrage and led to a media blackout of his statements and of press conferences held by the Bank.

As Ali offered insights into the details of the budget, the conspicuous silence of Governor Talukder was both glaring and at times deafening.

In the press conference, the press itself decided to mute one of the key speakers - the governor.

As the finance minister moved to the Q&A session after his written speech, President of the Economic Reporters' Forum, ERF, Mohammad Refayet Ullah Mirdha, threatened to boycott the press conference if Rouf made any statement.

At that moment, when the minister looked towards Rouf, the governor indicated through a gesture that he would not speak.

And so he sat there, frozen out, remaining unusually silent for nearly two hours.



Title: Will ex-IGP Benazir get opportunity to legalise black money? NBR chairman answers

The matter has become a legal question now, says Muneem

Amid criticism of the inclusion of controversial provisions for 'whitening black money' in the new budget, NBR Chairman Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem has said former inspector general of police Benazir Ahmed will not be able to legalise his 'illegally acquired assets'.

Finance Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali proposed a budget of Tk 7.97 trillion for the fiscal year 2024-2025 in parliament on Thursday, which included the opportunity to legitimise undisclosed income by paying a 15 percent tax without facing questions.

The day after presenting the budget, he held a press conference at the Osmani Memorial Auditorium in the capital following the tradition. Ministers, state ministers, and secretaries from various departments attended it. They responded to journalists' questions and elaborated on various issues.

There, a journalist asked if people like the former IGP, after paying a 15 percent tax, will be able to whiten their black money.

The NBR boss responded by saying: “The matter of Benazir Ahmed's assets has now fallen under criminal (legal) proceedings. Whether his assets can be legitimised by paying the 15 percent tax is now a legal question.”

News of the former IGP’s vast ‘illegal’ assets surfaced in the media at the end of March, after which the matter went to the High Court, and the Anti-Corruption Commission, or ACC, began investigations. The court ordered the seizure of Benazir’s assets and freezing of his bank accounts.

As part of the investigation, the ACC also summoned Benazir, his wife, and two daughters for questioning. However, it has been reported in the media that the former IGP has already left the country with his wife.

NBR’s Muneem said, “In this case, how the assets can be legitimised by paying taxes is a legal question. We do not want to look at it so broadly. People might have some undisclosed assets for various reasons. We have proposed this to allow for the legitimisation of such undisclosed money.”

In the upcoming fiscal year's budget, the proposal has been made to increase the normal tax rate for individuals to a maximum of 30 percent.

The rule allows for the legitimisation of undisclosed income by paying additional fines after regular taxes. This time, the opportunity to legalise undisclosed income by paying a 15 percent tax has been included. The finance minister also mentioned amending the income tax law to incorporate this issue.

He said regardless of what other laws may exist, no agency, department, or ministry will be able to question this money in the future.

Another journalist asked how people in high positions in the government and administration, like Benazir, managed to evade the eyes of the investigators and reach such a level.

The Prime Minister's Economic Affairs Advisor Mashiur Rahman said, “Action will be taken according to the law of the land regarding Benazir Ahmed. As a citizen of the country, he will be granted the rights he is entitled to.”

He noted that the ACC is conducting the investigation and said Benazir has asked for time to appear before it for questioning. He has been granted time.

The Centre for Policy Dialogue, or CPD, also held a briefing earlier on Friday to give its reactions to the budget, where the issue of Benazir was brought up.

Journalists highlighted the concern of whether corrupt individuals would get a pass by paying taxes on assets acquired through corruption and irregularities.

In response, CPD’s distinguished fellow Mostafizur Rahman said, “For the first time, a provision is being added to the income tax law stating that no organisation or institution can question or take any action regarding the legitimised undisclosed income in the future.”

He questioned whether this would apply to the ACC as well and said, “This discourages good governance and encourages tax evasion.”



Title: NBR chief questions stock market tax incentives

The government has reduced the spread between corporate taxes of publicly traded and non-listed firms

The chairman of the National Board of Revenue has questioned tax exemptions for publicly traded companies, asking if the facilities really helped the capital market grow.

Abu Hena Md Rahmatul Muneem answered questions on cutting the spread between corporate taxes of publicly traded and non-listed companies from 7.5 percentage points to 5 points in the national expenditure plan at a post-budget press conference on Friday.

Finance Minister AH Mahmood Ali also announced taxes for over Tk 5 million income from trading shares.

“I don’t know how effective the spread between the taxes of listed and unlisted companies is. The rate was kept low for the listed firms and the spread was high for a long time. Did our stock market grow much because of that?” Muneem asked.

After a collapse in 2010, the share market has continued to frustrate investors despite a raft of measures taken by the government, the central bank and the regulator.

“We don’t think only tax exemptions will help the stock market develop. Did we see good results from many types of tax incentives for the stock market? Does the problem lie somewhere else? Has it been identified?” the NBR chief asked.

“Still you [the journalist who raised the question] think that only tax exemptions can expand the capital market. The tax exemptions were there for a long time.”

Muneem observed that the NBR was levying new taxes, increasing existing taxes and lowering waivers because revenue collection must increase to cut the budget deficit.

“We must increase tax collection. We have pressure from inside and outside the country. That’s why taxes have been increased,” he explained.

Noting that the minimum corporate rate now stands at 20 percent, he said: “If we fix 15 percent tax, we won’t get revenue. Our state hasn’t reached that position yet.”



Title: Biden's daunting exit list: Gaza ceasefire, Ukraine aid, US Steel

He may pursue a limited security pact with Saudi Arabia, strengthening both against Iran

US President Joe Biden delivers remarks during the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington, DC, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz/File Photo

With a month left in the White House, US President Joe Biden has a long list of foreign and domestic policy actions he hopes to get done before president-elect Donald Trump assumes office, where the Republican is expected to try to reverse much of Biden's record.

Atop Biden's list are final, hurried pushes to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of American hostages abroad, distribute more aid to Ukraine, issue more pardons to non-violent criminals, forgive more student debt, release more funding for semiconductor chip production, and potentially block the sale of US Steel, according to White House aides and an internal memo seen by Reuters.

The list reflects how drawn-out and bloody wars in Europe and the Middle East on Biden's watch hijacked his legacy overseas, where he promised to restore and strengthen American leadership. Simultaneously, Democrats' election failures have shaken his legacy at home.

Biden, 82, promised to remake the US economy as president and clocked significant legislative wins in the first half of his four-year term, including the bipartisan infrastructure and inflation reduction bills.

But major lawmaking essentially ground to a halt after Republicans won the House in the 2022 midterm elections. Some Democrats blame Biden's refusal to step aside as candidate for their colossal defeats this November, most notably Vice President Kamala Harris' loss to Trump in every battleground state.

Securing a ceasefire deal in the war between Israel and Hamas that Palestinian authorities say has killed over 45,000 in Gaza, and bolstering Ukraine's defence in its nearly 3-year war with Russia are top priorities, White House officials say.

"This is not an uncommon thing for presidents at the end of their term or in the transition period if there are unresolved conflicts," said US presidential historian and Vanderbilt University professor Thomas Alan Schwartz.

A ceasefire deal in the 14-month war in Gaza could happen in the coming days, with the administration making a forceful diplomatic push this week. Similar hopeful discussions have flopped in the past, but the scope of this agreement is narrower.

Biden is also rushing weapons to Ukraine for fear that Trump, who often boasts of his close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, may be less likely to aid Ukraine's war effort.

He may also seek to close a stripped-down security pact with Saudi Arabia, which could strengthen both countries against Iran. The oil-rich Middle East power rejected Biden's condition of normalising relations with Israel and consequently abandoned talks of a binding mutual defence treaty with the US.

HOME FRONT

Biden's final domestic policy sprint will include distributing the remaining funds he secured through his landmark investment legislation, including high-speed internet funding to states, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters. In January, he is expected to announce a $2,000 prescription drug cost cap for Medicare recipients, and he will work with Congress to get federal judges confirmed until the last minute, the memo said.

The stage is all but set for Biden to block the sale of US Steel to an overseas buyer as soon as next week, something he has promised to do for nearly a year as he touts his mission to keep and expand manufacturing on US soil.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which reviews deals for national security risks, has a Dec 23 deadline to approve the deal, extend the review, or recommend Biden scuttle it.

On this issue, Biden and Trump agree: Trump said earlier this month that he would block the deal.

Other priorities involve policies or programmes that Trump is likely to oppose, including efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change.

The Treasury Department is expected as soon as today to issue its highly contested final guidance for the Inflation Reduction Act's tax credit for hydrogen projects, and Biden officials are conferring with EU peers on locking in methane emissions before Trump takes office.

The Commerce Department is rapidly awarding its remaining funds to boost US semiconductor chip manufacturing, which were allocated by Biden's CHIPS and Science Act. Trump has criticised the programme's price tag, casting its future in doubt.



Title: Sweden ends funding for UN Palestinian aid agency UNRWA

It plans to increase Gaza aid to 800 million crowns next year

A Palestinian carries an aid box distributed by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Deir Al-Balah, central Gaza Strip, Nov 4, 2024. REUTERS/Ramadan Abed/File Photo

Sweden will no longer fund the UN refugee agency for Palestinians (UNRWA) and will instead provide increased overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza via other channels, the Nordic country said on Friday.

Israel, which says it will ban UNRWA operations in the country from late January, accuses the agency of being involved in the Oct 7, 2023, Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the 14-month-old war in Gaza.

Sweden's decision was in response to the Israeli ban, as it will make channelling aid via the agency more difficult, the country's aid minister, Benjamin Dousa, said.

"Large parts of UNRWA's operations in Gaza are either going to be severely weakened or completely impossible," Dousa told Reuters. "For the government, the most important thing is that support gets through."

Dousa said Sweden "in no way" supported Israel's law and had repeatedly expressed its criticism. "Israel must do much more to ensure humanitarian access to Gaza," he said.

The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA's operations in the West Bank and Gaza but it will have a severe impact on UNRWA's ability to work. Top UN officials describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza's aid response.

Sweden plans to lift its overall humanitarian aid to Gaza next year to 800 million Swedish crowns ($72.44 million) from 451 million spent this year, the foreign ministry said.

Aid will flow via several organisations including the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN Populations Fund (UNFPA) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the ministry added.

The Palestinian embassy in Stockholm said in a statement: "We reject the idea of finding alternatives to UNRWA, which has a special mandate to provide services to Palestinian refugees." The refugee population relies on UNRWA healthcare, education, emergency relief and humanitarian assistance, it said.

The UN General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month, demanding Israel respect the agency's mandate and "enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction".

UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X: "Defunding UNRWA now will undermine decades of Sweden’s investment in human development including by denying access to education for hundreds of thousands of girls and boys across the region."

Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Sharren Haskel thanked Dousa for a meeting they had this week and for Sweden's decision to drop its support for UNRWA.

"There are worthy and viable alternatives for humanitarian aid, and I appreciate the willingness to listen and adopt a different approach," she said.

The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved in the Oct 7, 2023 Hamas attack and had been fired. A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job.



Title: Israel's Netanyahu eyes Iran after triumphs over Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria

As Iran weakens, Israel rises as the dominant regional power

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks at a ceremony for military combat officers at an army base near Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, Oct 31, 2024. REUTERS/Amir Cohen/File Photo

2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his country's arch foe Iran.

The veteran Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals: tightening his military control over Gaza, thwarting Iran's nuclear ambitions and capitalising on the dismantling of Tehran's allies -- Palestinian Hamas, Lebanon's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

Assad's collapse, the elimination of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu.

Without Syria, the alliances Tehran has nurtured for decades have unravelled. As Iran's influence weakens, Israel is emerging as the dominant power in the region.

Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran's nuclear ambitions and missile programme, applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel.

Iran, Middle East observers say, faces a stark choice: Either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations.

"Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack, particularly against its nuclear programme," said Joost R. Hiltermann, Middle East and North Africa Program Director of the International Crisis Group. "I wouldn't be surprised if Israel did it, but that doesn't get rid of Iran."

"If they (Iranians) do not back down, Trump and Netanyahu might strike, as nothing now prevents them," said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib, referring to President-elect Donald Trump. Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership, having demonstrated pragmatism in the past, may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation.

Trump, who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear goals, is likely to step up sanctions on Iran's oil industry, despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy.

DEFINING LEGACY

Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza, Netanyahu's long-running corruption trial, which resumed in December, will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy. For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza war in 2023, Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis.

With 2024 coming to an end, the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old Gaza war and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave, according to sources close to the negotiations.

But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority (PA), which Netanyahu rejects. Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over.

"Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising. Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza," Khatib told Reuters.

For Netanyahu, such a result would mark a strategic victory, consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision: Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel's long-term control over Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state.

The Gaza war erupted when Hamas militants stormed into Israel on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people, health authorities there say, displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins.

While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities, it would not address the deeper, decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Arab and Western officials say.

On the ground, prospects for a Palestinian state, an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu's government, have become increasingly unattainable, with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views.

A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic "No Future in Palestine" - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians.

Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict, "any resolution would be on Israel’s terms," said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group.

"It's over when it comes to a Palestinian state, but the Palestinians are still there," he said.

In Trump's previous term, Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins, including the “Deal of the Century,” a US-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The plan, if implemented, marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations.

It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank, including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley. It would also recognise Jerusalem as the "undivided capital of Israel" - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital, a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions.

SYRIA AT CRITICAL CROSSROADS

Across the border from Israel, Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) rebel forces, led by Ahmad al-Sharaa, better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani.

Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria, where the military and police force have collapsed. HTS has to rebuild from scratch, securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from jihadists, remnants of the Assad regime, and other adversaries.

The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS, once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy, reverts to a rigid Islamist ideology.

The group’s ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria, home to diverse communities of Sunnis, Shi'ites, Alawites, Kurds, Druze and Christians.

"If they succeed in that (Syrian nationalism) there's hope for Syria, but if they revert to their comfort zone of quite strongly ideologically-tainted Islamism, then it's going to be divisive in Syria," said Hiltermann.

"You could have chaos and a weak Syria for a long time, just like we saw in Libya and Iraq."



Title: Elon Musk gives nod to German far-right party as election looms

He backs multiple anti-immigration parties in Europe

Tesla CEO and X owner Elon Musk listens as US President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with House Republicans at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Washington, DC, US on Nov 13, 2024. ALLISON ROBBERT/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo

US billionaire Elon Musk, set to join President-elect Donald Trump's administration as an outside adviser, waded into Germany's election campaign on Friday, calling the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) the country's saviour.

The AfD is running second in opinion polls and might be able to thwart either a centre-right or centre-left majority, but Germany's mainstream, more centrist parties have vowed to shun support from the AfD at national level.

Europe's leading power is expected to vote on Feb 23 after a centre-left coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz collapsed.

"Only the AfD can save Germany," Musk wrote in a post on his social media platform, X.

Musk, the world's richest person, has already expressed support for other anti-immigration parties across Europe.

The German government said it had taken note of Musk's post but declined to give any further comment at its regular press conference.

Musk reposted a message by German right-wing influencer Naomi Seibt that criticised Friedrich Merz, chancellor candidate for the conservatives, who are comfortably ahead in surveys.

Matthias Miersch, secretary-general of Scholz's Social Democrats, told the media outlet t-online that Germany did not need foreign influences or "Trumpism", adding: "Stay out, Elon."

Musk had already voiced support for the AfD last year, when he attacked the German government's handling of illegal migration.

Last month, Musk called for the sacking of Italian judges who had questioned the legality of government measures to prevent irregular immigration.

And this week Nigel Farage, leader of Britain's right-wing Reform UK party and friend of Trump, posted a photo of himself and Reform's treasurer meeting Musk at Trump's Florida residence, and said he was in talks with Musk about financial support.



Title: Top US officials in Damascus to meet new Syrian rulers, State Department says

The delegation also seeks information on a US journalist, missing since 2012

Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani speaks to a crowd at Ummayad Mosque in Damascus, after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad, Syria Dec 8, 2024. REUTERS/Mahmoud Hassano//File Photo

Top US diplomats were expected to hold Washington's first in-person official meetings with Syria's new de facto rulers led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Damascus on Friday, hoping to gauge what plans the former al Qaeda affiliate has for the country.

The United States, other Western powers and many Syrians were glad to see militias led by HTS topple President Bashar al-Assad, but it is not clear whether the group will impose strict Islamic rule or show flexibility and move towards democracy.

The US officials from the Biden administration will discuss with HTS representatives a set of principles such as inclusivity and respect for the rights of minorities that Washington wants included in Syria's political transition, a State Department spokesperson said.

The State Department's top Middle East diplomat Barbara Leaf, Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and Senior Advisor Daniel Rubinstein, who is tasked with leading the Department's Syria engagement, are the first US diplomats to travel to Damascus since Assad's rule collapsed.

Western governments are gradually opening channels to HTS and its leader Ahmed al-Sharaa, a former commander of an al Qaeda franchise in Syria, and starting to debate whether to remove the group's terrorist designation. The US delegation's trip follows contacts with France and Britain in recent days.

The delegation will also seek information about US journalist Austin Tice, who was taken captive during a reporting trip to Syria in August 2012, and other American citizens who went missing under Assad.

"They will be engaging directly with the Syrian people, including members of civil society, activists, members of different communities, and other Syrian voices about their vision for the future of their country and how the United States can help support them," the State Department spokesperson said.

"They also plan to meet with representatives of HTS to discuss transition principles endorsed by the United States and regional partners in Aqaba, Jordan."

The US cut diplomatic ties with Syria and shut its embassy in the capital Damascus in 2012.

SYRIANS GATHER

Several hundred Syrians gathered in Damascus' central Ummayad Square on Thursday to call for a democratic, secular state that ensures equal rights for women. It was the first such demonstration since Assad's ouster.

There is widespread apprehension among Syrians that the new administration will gravitate towards hardline religious rule, marginalising minority communities and excluding women from public life.

Obaida Arnout, a spokesperson for the Syrian transitional government, said this week that women's "biological and physiological nature" rendered them unfit for certain governmental jobs.

The UN human rights office will send a small team of human rights officers to Syria next week for the first time in years following the overthrow of Assad, UN spokesperson Thameen Al-Kheetan told a press briefing in Geneva.

As part of the takeover, rebels have flung open prisons and government offices, raising fresh hopes for accountability for crimes committed during Syria's civil war.

Syrian rebels seized control of Damascus on Dec 8, forcing Assad to flee after more than 13 years of civil war and ending his family's decades-long rule.

The rebel sweep ended a war that killed hundreds of thousands, caused one of the biggest refugee crises of modern times and left cities bombed to rubble, countryside depopulated and the economy hollowed out by global sanctions.

The lightning offensive raised questions over whether the rebels will be able to ensure an orderly transition.

Forces under the command of al-Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - replaced the Assad family rule with a three-month caretaker government that had been ruling a rebel enclave in Syria's northwestern province of Idlib.

Washington designated al-Sharaa a terrorist in 2013, saying al Qaeda in Iraq had tasked him with overthrowing Assad's rule and establishing Islamic sharia law in Syria. It said the Nusra Front, the predecessor of HTS, carried out suicide attacks that killed civilians and espoused a violent sectarian vision.

Golani said the terrorist designation was unfair and that he opposed the killing of innocent people.

Washington remains concerned that ISIS could seize the moment to resurrect and also wants to avoid any clashes in the country's northeast between Turkey-backed rebel factions and US-allied Kurdish militia.



Title: Georgia to award medals to officials sanctioned by West for protest crackdown

11 officials are set to receive one of Georgia's highest civilian medals

Georgia's Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze leaves after a briefing amid the political crisis, triggered by the government's decision to suspend talks on joining the European Union, in Tbilisi, Georgia Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Irakli Gedenidze

Five Georgian interior ministry officials who were sanctioned by the West for their role in a violent crackdown on pro-EU protesters will be presented with one of the country's highest honours, Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze said on Friday.

Georgians have been protesting daily for three weeks since the government announced it was halting talks on joining the European Union - a longstanding and widely popular national goal - until 2028.

The officials to be decorated include Interior Minister Vakhtang Gomelauri and heads of the ministry's Special Tasks Department, which is accused of orchestrating beatings of opposition politicians and journalists, who were sanctioned by the US and UK on Thursday.

Gomelauri, a former bodyguard to Bidzina Ivanishvili, a billionaire ex-prime minister widely seen as Georgia's paramount leader, was also promoted on Friday to deputy prime minister.

Police have used water cannon and tear gas against the crowds. Georgia's government has accused the demonstrators of trying to stage a revolution and says more than 150 police officers have been injured in clashes with protesters who have thrown fireworks at them.

Georgia had been seen as among the most democratic and pro-Western of the Soviet Union's successor states, but critics accuse it of moving in an increasingly authoritarian and pro-Russian direction in the past several years.

Kobakhidze told reporters the government would compensate any officials who suffered financial losses as a result of the "unjust decision" to impose Western sanctions.

He said the officials were being rewarded for "the honourable actions carried out by the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs." A total of 11 senior officials would be nominated for the Order of Honour, one of Georgia's highest civilian medals.



