Category: https://bdnews24.com/lifestyle

Title: Florence's landmark passageway over Ponte Vecchio reopens to public

The museum reopens the corridor after €11M restoration, calling it an "air tunnel"

A Renaissance-era raised passageway that connects Florence's Uffizi Galleries to the Medici's former residence, Palazzo Pitti, will reopen to the public on Saturday, offering spectacular views of the historic Italian city.

The Vasari Corridor, named after Giorgio Vasari, the 16th century architect, painter and art historian who designed it, snakes its way through central Florence, passing over the Arno river via the Ponte Vecchio bridge, one of the city's landmarks.

The Uffizi museum, which manages the corridor and oversaw restoration and safety upgrades costing 11 million euros ($11.5 million), called it, in a statement, an "air tunnel" hovering over the heart of the city.

"The reopening is extremely important for us because ... it is about returning to the public one of the most famous and fabled monuments of the Renaissance," the head of the Uffizi Galleries, Simone Verde, told Reuters.

It was built in 1565, in just a few months, to allow Florence's rulers to move freely between their home and Palazzo Vecchio, the seat of government, passing also through the Uffizi Galleries.

The corridor, which had been closed since 2016, will open to groups of up to 25 people at a time, who can walk through it from the Uffizi to the Pitti's Boboli Gardens, crossing over the Arno from the right bank to the left.

In recent decades the passageway hosted the Uffizi's vast number of self-portraits, but in its newly restored state its walls were stripped of all paintings and left bare as they were five centuries ago.

Tickets for a combined visit to the corridor and the Uffizi, whose outstanding collection includes works by Giotto, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Titian and Botticelli, must be booked in advance and cost 43 euros.



Title: Ivory Coast's economic hub Abidjan turns into vibrant graffiti gallery

Passers-by praise artists’ efforts to revamp the urban centre

Street artists who came to participate in the first edition of Graff Ivoire, paint a mural on the facade of the Pullman hotel, in Abidjan, Ivory Coast Nov 17, 2024. REUTERS/Luc Gnago

Splashes of vibrant colours are reviving the urban canvas of Abidjan's Plateau district, the economic heart of the Ivory Coast.

Ivorians have previously viewed graffiti with disdain and graffiti artists were liable for prosecution. But that view is changing, and graffiti murals are increasingly common on city walls as the artform has gained acceptance.

Towering murals and intricate graffiti pieces now adorn the exteriors of international hotels and major thoroughfares.

The inaugural "Ivory Graff Graffiti Festival" attracted around 40 national and international artists who spent two weeks in November converting bland walls into 300-meter-long works of art.

Benjamin Le Lieve, president of festival organiser Graff Ivoire, said he was proud to have launched a new initiative.

Passers-by admired the artists at work and expressed approval for their efforts to revamp the urban centre.

"It brings a change to the city of Abidjan," said Michael Bende, an Ivorian citizen.

South African artist Dbongz Mahlathi said: "The graffiti I've created isn't for me ... it's for the people who will see it every day."



Title: Kite-making picks up in India's Gujarat as harvest festival nears

Gujarat's kite industry employs 130,000, despite a brief flying season

Kite enthusiasts fly kites during the eight-day-long International Kite Festival in Ahmedabad, India, Jan 7, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

Huddled over piles of colourful paper, Mohammad Yunus is one among thousands of workers in India's western state of Gujarat who make kites by hand that are used during a major harvest festival.

People in Gujarat celebrate Uttarayan, a Hindu festival in mid-January that celebrates the end of winter by flying kites held by glass-coated or plastic strings.

"The kite may seem like a small item but it takes a long time to make it. Many people are involved in it and their livelihoods depend on it," Yunus, a Muslim who comes to Gujarat from neighbouring Rajasthan state to make kites during the peak season, told Reuters.

More than 130,000 people are involved in kite-making throughout Gujarat, according to government estimates, many of whom work from homes to make kites that cost as little as five rupees (6 US cents).

At the start of the two-day festival, people rent roofs and terraces from those who have access to them, and gather there to fly colourful kites that criss-cross each other in the sky.

Gujarat is a hub of the kite industry in the country, boasting a market worth 6.50 billion Indian rupees ($76.58 million), and the state accounts for about 65% of the total number of kites made in India.

While the kite flying season in the state is limited to almost just 2 or 3 days in January, the industry runs year-round providing employment to about 130,000 people in the state, according to government figures.

But these paper birds are also harmful and can be fatal, especially kites that have plastic strings, which can cause serious cuts to birds in the sky, killing and injuring thousands of them during the festival.

At least 18 people died from kite related injures across Gujarat during this year's Uttarayan festival, including being cut by a string and getting electrocuted while trying to extricate a kite from an electric pole, local media reported.



Title: Shanghai bear cub Junjun becomes breakout star

Born at the zoo as the first offspring of his parents, Junjun was hand-reared by keepers who supply his toys and favourite foods of beef and apples with honey

A 11-month-old bear cub, Junjun, looks on in his enclosure at Shanghai Zoo, in Shanghai, China Dec 12, 2024. REUTERS/Casey Hall

Adoring crowds are flocking to a zoo in Shanghai to watch Junjun, a bear cub just 11 months old, as he frolics in his enclosure playing with toys, such as a favourite tyre, or splashing in a water trough.

Standing 1 m (3.3 ft) tall and weighing more than 35 kg (77 lbs), the brown bear's every move captivates fans, who exclaim at his resemblance to a playful puppy and admire his fluffy fur coat.

Even on a cold weekday in December, when the zoo in China's commercial hub is mostly deserted, a crowd gathers at the outdoor enclosure where Junjun encounters his doting public every two days.

"His little movements are really funny. Very cute, so cute that it can't be cuter," said one visitor, surnamed Lin.

Born at the zoo as the first offspring of his parents, Junjun was hand-reared by keepers who supply his toys and favourite foods of beef and apples with honey.

Junjun's fame has spread on social media, with videos and pictures online commenting on his resemblance to Duffy, a teddy bear and popular Disney character.

"Everyone likes such a lively and active bear cub," said his keeper, Yang Junjie. "He can play in the exhibition area all day long, attracting everyone's attention."

Junjun has always been playful, said Yang, who added he was initially taken aback by the streams of visitors as he did not realise his charge had become an online celebrity.

The bear's favourite game is racing with his keepers, first chasing them, then being chased by them but stopping to let them catch up.



Title: In Rio de Janeiro competition, barbers battle for best haircut

Over more than a decade since it started, the competition has cemented itself as a tradition in Rio's suburbs

A boy shows his bleached hair during a barbers' battle contest for best haircut in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil December 15, 2024. REUTERS/Aline Massuca

Over the sound of Brazilian music and under the scorching Rio de Janeiro heat, around 90 barbers battled on Sunday to decide who would be the best in a yearly competition that boosts the careers of winners and garners international attention.

Gathered in a park in Rio's Madureira neighbourhood, barbers made the heads of volunteers their canvas, colouring and buzzing hair to create styles that showcase abstract or detailed designs.

"Ten years ago, barbers were a thing from my grandfather's time, no one believed in the profession," said Erica Nunes, the event's creator. "The battle of the barbers arose to value this profession."

Over more than a decade since it started, the competition has cemented itself as a tradition in Rio's suburbs, attracting barbers from across Brazil and even from neighboring countries.

"We are very well prepared and eager," said Allan Gonzales, a Bolivian barber.

From inside an MMA-like ring, barbers compete to win in four different categories, with their work evaluated by a panel of judges. Marcelo Anderson, known as Magnific, won in the drawing category - he used his clippers to create the portraits of two men on the side of the young client's head.

This was his fourth win since he started competing over a decade ago, and each time he sees a boost on his clientele after it, he told Reuters.

"It brings more visibility, a lot of fans. They start following me on social media and I gain more clients."



Title: Stand aside Harry Potter, blazing brooms light up Spanish festival

The fiery festival takes place on the eve of the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception

People carry brooms on fire during the "Los Escobazos" festival in Jarandilla de la Vera, Caceres, Spain, Dec 7, 2024. REUTERS/Ana Beltran

Processions of people wielding flaming brooms may sound like something out of magic tales, but those used to light up a Spanish town every year are the real thing - and there is no witchcraft involved, just fun.

Every year on Dec 7, the inhabitants of Jarandilla de la Vera, a town in western Spain about 200 km (124 miles) west of Madrid, set bundles of twigs on fire and playfully hit each other on the legs in a festival known as Los Escobazos (the broom strikes).

"This celebration represents the best (feeling) for us. All the sadness you had in your body and didn't know how to get rid of, you leave it here with the fire," local resident Vicente Berrocosa told Reuters on Saturday.

The fiery festival is celebrated on the eve of the Catholic feast known as the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception. It is believed to have originated with shepherds coming from the hills using blazing brooms to light their way.

"We play with fire as if we were playing with water. For us, fire is a symbol of purity. Nothing happens, we hit each other and we don't get hurt, we don't get burned. It's wonderful!" said another resident, Jesus Ferino.



Title: New York museum unveils 'Apex' - an almost complete Stegosaurus

The fossil, found in Colorado, has recently sold for $44.6 million at an auction

A Stegosaurus fossil nicknamed Apex is unveiled to the media at the American Museum of Natural History, in New York City, US, Dec 5, 2024. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

The American Museum of Natural History revealed the identity of its latest resident on Thursday - "Apex," one of the most complete specimens ever discovered of the plant-eating dinosaur Stegosaurus, known for the upright plates on its back and a spiky tail.

To excited gasps from an audience of school children, the museum pulled back a beige curtain to reveal the 11-foot (3.4-metre) tall, 20-foot (6-metre) long skeleton of the Jurassic Period dinosaur.

"People are really excited about this fossil because Stegosaurus is an iconic dinosaur," said the museum's dinosaur curator Roger Benson.

Stegosaurus walked on four legs and lived in North America around 150 million years ago during the Jurassic Period. Its fossils were first discovered in the 1870s.

"Although it was a herbivore, Stegosaurus wasn't like a cow or a sheep," Benson said. "It's a herbivore that could look after itself. It has these wicked spikes on its tail. It has plates along its back."

Those would have been useful as protection against meat-eating dinosaurs like Allosaurus.

This Stegosaurus fossil was found in Colorado and fetched a record $44.6 million at a Sotheby's auction in July. The buyer has loaned it to the New York museum, one of the leading natural history museums in the United States.

"Everyone has their own favourite dinosaur, but Stegosaurus is up there in the top five. So it's hard not to get excited about a really complete, large individual of this animal," Benson said.



Title: Japan's centuries-old sake tradition recognised on UNESCO cultural heritage list

Producers hope this will boost global interest in the traditional rice wine that dates back centuries

Japan's Ambassador to UNESCO Takehiro Kano addresses the audience at the 19th World Cultural Heritage Conference, as Japan's Sake was added to UNESCO'S Intangible Cultural Heritage list, in Asuncion, Paraguay Dec 4, 2024. REUTERS

UNESCO recognized Japan's ancient process of sake brewing as an "intangible cultural heritage" on Wednesday, which producers hope will boost global interest in the traditional rice wine that dates back centuries but has waned in popularity at home.

Naturally, Japanese representatives at a UNESCO meeting in Paraguay marked the occasion by sampling some sake.

The beverage is made over several weeks by fermenting a mixture of rice, water, yeast and a colorful mold known as koji, in a process more akin to making beer than wine. The end results can be served hot, cold or at room temperature.

While sake plays a significant role in Japanese society and tradition, often served during ceremonies and special meals, demand has ebbed for the drink domestically even as international demand grows.

Sake producers hope UNESCO's recognition accelerates their exports and reinvigorates enthusiasm for the beverage at home.

"We are very happy," said Japan's permanent representative to UNESCO, Takehiro Kano.

"Being recognized internationally by this mechanism will renew the interest of Japanese people in this area, and that could lead to more momentum for transmitting these skills and know-how to the next generation."

UNESCO, the United Nations' education, scientific and cultural agency, admits practices, pieces of art or skills to its intangible cultural heritage list to foster their preservation for future generations.

UNESCO delegates also approved Asturian cider culture in Spain and the making of giant barrels in Guatemala, among other items and practices admitted to the list on Wednesday.



Title: Bronze statues, coins and ancient eggs found in Tuscan thermal baths

Archaeologists have been digging in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop town about 160 km north of Rome

The so-called bull statuette is displayed after it was discovered and pulled out from the muddy ruins of an ancient spa in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop village in southern Tuscany still home to popular thermal baths, in Grosseto, Italy, Sept 25, 2024. Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism/Handout via REUTERS

Ancient statues, coins, jewels and still-intact eggs from Roman and Etruscan times have been recovered from thermal baths in southern Tuscany, Italy's culture ministry said on Tuesday, presenting the latest discoveries at the site.

Archaeologists have been digging in San Casciano dei Bagni, a hilltop town about 160 km (100 miles) north of Rome since 2019, and announced other remarkablefinds over the past two years.

San Casciano had a shrine linked to hot water springs used for healing purposes as far back into the 3rd century B.C., the ministry said. Etruscans and Romans used to throw offerings in there, which are now being excavated.

The latest findings, located almost 5 metres (16 feet) below the ground, include male and female bronze sculptures, including of man cut in half lengthwise, thousands of coins, a gold crown and ring, precious stones, and a series of snake sculptures.

One of these is almost one metre (one yard) long and is likely a representation of Agathos Daimon, a bearded snake-like god with horns from Greek mythology, who may have been the protector of the springs, the ministry said.

It would be the largest bronze sculpture of this god recovered so far, the statement said, noting that smaller examples are held at the British Museum in London and at the National Archaeological Museum in Naples.

Thousands of egg shells were also found, as well as eggs that were intact or with small holes showing the yolk still inside, plus twigs decorated with plants and pine cones, as part of earthly donations to the sanctuary.

San Casciano's artefacts are believed to have been preserved over centuries by the warm mud of the springs. They are due to be put on display in a new museum scheduled to open in the town in late 2026.



Title: China calls on universities to provide 'love education'

Beijing has been promoting various measures to try to make having children more attractive to young couples

Couples take part in pre-wedding photoshoots by the sea in Qingdao, Shandong province, China Apr 21, 2024. REUTERS/Florence Lo

China is urging colleges and universities to provide "love education" to emphasise positive views on marriage, love, fertility and family, in a bid to boost the country's flagging birth rate.

Beijing has been promoting various measures to try to make having children more attractive to young couples after China posted a second consecutive year of population decline in 2023.

China has the second-biggest population in the world at 1.4 billion, but it is ageing quickly, which will increase the demands on government spending in the future and put pressure on the economy.

College students will be the biggest driver of fertility but they have significantly changed their views on marriage and love, the Jiangsu Xinhua newspaper group said, citing China Population News, an official publication.

"Colleges and universities should assume the responsibility of providing marriage and love education to college students by offering marriage and love education courses," the publication said.

The measures would help create a "healthy and positive marriage and childbearing cultural atmosphere."

The state council, or cabinet, rallied local governments in November to direct resources towards fixing China's population decline and spread respect for childbearing and marriages "at the right age," although demographers said the moves were unlikely to resonate with young Chinese.

Around 57% of college students polled by China Population News said they did not want to fall in love, mainly because they did not know how to allocate time to balance the relationship between study and love, the publication said.

Due to the lack of "systematic and scientific marriage and love education, college students have a vague understanding of emotional relationships."

Universities could focus on teaching junior college students about population and national conditions, new marriage and childbearing concepts, it said.

Senior college students and graduate students could be taught through "case analysis, group discussion on maintaining intimate relationships and communication between the sexes."

The courses would be able to help them "improve their ability to correctly understand marriage and love and manage love relationships."



Title: Seized art by Dali, De Chirico showcased in Milan exhibition

The collection spans from the 20th century to early 2000s

A woman walks past sculpture "Disco-Con Sfera" (Disk with sphere) by Arnaldo Pomodoro at exhibition "SalvArti, from Confiscations to Public Collections", a showcase of contemporary artworks coming from confiscations carried out by public authorities against organised crime, in Milan, Italy, Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Claudia Greco

Works by Salvador Dali and Giorgio De Chirico feature in an exhibition of more than 80 paintings and sculptures recovered by Italian authorities from money laundering and mafia probes that opened in Milan on Tuesday.

Hosted at Palazzo Reale, a few steps from Milan's Duomo cathedral, the 'SalvArti' (Save Arts) exhibition of contemporary art also includes works by Andy Warhol, Keith Haring and Arnaldo Pomodoro, the organisers said.

The collection spans from the first half of the 20th century through to the early 2000s.

After a preview in Rome in November, the showcase will continue in Milan until the end of January. It then moves to the southern city of Reggio Calabria, in the heartland of the powerful mafia group 'Ndrangheta, until late April.

The pieces will eventually be distributed to several museums across Italy.



Title: Japanese brewer hopes UNESCO listing makes sake as popular as sushi

The brewing technique will be Japan's 23rd entry on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage

Brewers stir the mixture in a container to make a yeast starter, an important ingredient used in brewing sake, a traditional Japanese rice wine, at Ishikawa Shuzou, or Ishikawa Brewery, in Fussa, western portion of Tokyo, Japan Nov 25, 2024. REUTERS/Issei Kato

At a Tokyo brewery dating back to the days of the samurai, Koichi Maesako drops a 3-metre-long wooden paddle into a giant, jade-coloured tank and gently stirs the white mixture that will turn into sake in a week's time.

The sweet-and-sour-smelling brew - of rice, yeast starter, the culinary mould known as koji and water - has been fermenting for 20 days in what is part of an ancient technique that UNESCO is set to list as Intangible Cultural Heritage this week.

For Maesako, the 40-year-old chief brewer of Ishikawa Shuzou, or Ishikawa Brewery, the UN agency's endorsement would be welcome news after a difficult couple of years.

Unseasonably warm weather has hit the rice harvest, not only affecting the quality of the grain but also raising procurement costs, he said.

Traditional sake brewers had already been contending with decades of falling sales at home as consumers acquired a taste for cocktails like highballs and other alcoholic drinks.

"The situation is much tougher compared to previous years," Maesako told Reuters last week.

"It's still quite warm, even though it's almost December. The price of rice is high and the harvest is poor, which has made sake-brewing (this year) very challenging."

Maesako hopes the UN body's recognition of the traditional brewing technique will turn things around by igniting demand overseas, where sake has slowly gained popularity alongside Japanese cuisine, also in part thanks to UNESCO's endorsement of "washoku" as living heritage in 2013.

"After being listed by UNESCO, Japanese traditional cuisine (washoku) has spread all over the world," Maesako said.

"I hope that the same thing will happen with sake. Our brewery is seeing a rise in exports, and we hope the UNESCO listing will accelerate this trend."

The centuries-old method of making sake is unique for its three-step preparation, or "San-Dan-Jikomi", of allowing multiple fermentation processes to progress simultaneously in a single container.

"It's really cool just seeing and understanding how it all comes together," said Robert Brown, an American visitor at the brewery. "Taking a lot of Japan's history and then turning it into a cultural heritage seems really cool to me."

While sake has lost ground as a regular drink, Maesako said it remains impossible to separate from Japanese culture.

"We have sake at celebrations, at New Year's, and also on sad occasions, like funerals," he said. "The culture of Japanese sake is the culture of Japan itself."

The brewing technique is expected to be formally endorsed at a UNESCO committee session in Paraguay this week. It will be Japan's 23rd entry on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage.



Title: New Greek metro is archaeological window on the past

The project balances modernisation with preservation by displaying artefacts for commuters

A view of a subway station during a visit by Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to admire artefacts unearthed during construction work in Thessaloniki, Greece, Nov 29, 2024. REUTERS/Alexandros Avramidis/Pool

A metro system in Greece's second city Thessaloniki officially opened on Saturday, its stations displaying the same ancient artifacts that nearly derailed the project's completion.

During construction, which began in 2006, workers discovered a Byzantine-era market, a Roman cemetery and other treasures of the city's long and varied history.

The finds stalled the metro's progress and raised questions about how the city would modernise while protecting its rich past. The answer was to blend the two by displaying the uncovered artefacts for modern-day commuters to enjoy.

"This is not just a public works project, which is incredibly important for the city. It is also a museum," Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said before visiting the Venizelou station for a private tour on Friday.

"It's probably unique in the world. We will go through an underground museum to reach the train."

The metro took nearly 20 years to complete, in part because of funding problems during Greece's 2009-2018 debt crisis. It is the first such system in Greece outside Athens.

Builders had to dig deeper than originally planned - up to 31 metres (102 feet) - to make sure the tunnels ran below the archaeological findings, according to the project's contractor.

"It is an opportunity for Thessaloniki to become a second Rome, in terms of antiquities," said Melina Paisidou, one of the archaeologists to discover the relics underground.



Title: Kite-making picks up in India's Gujarat as harvest festival nears

Gujarat's kite industry employs 130,000, despite a brief flying season

Kite enthusiasts fly kites during the eight-day-long International Kite Festival in Ahmedabad, India, Jan 7, 2024. REUTERS/Amit Dave

Huddled over piles of colourful paper, Mohammad Yunus is one among thousands of workers in India's western state of Gujarat who make kites by hand that are used during a major harvest festival.

People in Gujarat celebrate Uttarayan, a Hindu festival in mid-January that celebrates the end of winter by flying kites held by glass-coated or plastic strings.

"The kite may seem like a small item but it takes a long time to make it. Many people are involved in it and their livelihoods depend on it," Yunus, a Muslim who comes to Gujarat from neighbouring Rajasthan state to make kites during the peak season, told Reuters.

More than 130,000 people are involved in kite-making throughout Gujarat, according to government estimates, many of whom work from homes to make kites that cost as little as five rupees (6 US cents).

At the start of the two-day festival, people rent roofs and terraces from those who have access to them, and gather there to fly colourful kites that criss-cross each other in the sky.

Gujarat is a hub of the kite industry in the country, boasting a market worth 6.50 billion Indian rupees ($76.58 million), and the state accounts for about 65% of the total number of kites made in India.

While the kite flying season in the state is limited to almost just 2 or 3 days in January, the industry runs year-round providing employment to about 130,000 people in the state, according to government figures.

But these paper birds are also harmful and can be fatal, especially kites that have plastic strings, which can cause serious cuts to birds in the sky, killing and injuring thousands of them during the festival.

At least 18 people died from kite related injures across Gujarat during this year's Uttarayan festival, including being cut by a string and getting electrocuted while trying to extricate a kite from an electric pole, local media reported.



Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



Title: Trump, not yet in office, already a figure in global economic policy

The US central bankers pencil in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS

The world's economic reckoning with the incoming Trump administration kicked off in earnest this week, with the US Federal Reserve flagging fewer rate cuts, a resignation in Canada over budgeting for tariffs and a heightened focus on cryptocurrencies.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday amid a busy year-end run of central bank meetings from Ottawa and Frankfurt to Tokyo and London that showed heightened uncertainty ahead of Donald Trump entering the White House in the new year.

Indeed, Fed officials not only dialled back projections for rate cuts in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were also trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

The upshot was US central bankers pencilled in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation.

That left Powell repeatedly urging "caution" around additional rate cuts from here, which triggered a slide in stock prices and a recalibration of market estimates for further easing. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and started to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said when asked if Trump's policies factored into officials' thinking.

"Some people said they didn't do so, and some people didn't say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that but some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their writing down more uncertainty around inflation."

In Asia, The Bank of Japan on Thursday kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"Uncertainty surrounding Japan's economy and prices remains high," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment, something BOJ officials may have to reckon with as the world's lone developed central bank is still trying to tighten policy.

Ahead of the Fed decision, rates had already been lowered last week by the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada, with both expected to deliver some additional easing in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Rate decisions are still due in the coming hours from central banks in Sweden, Norway and the United Kingdom.

UPHEAVAL

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Freeland said the threat of new US tariffs represented a grave danger after Trump last month warned he would issue levies on goods imported from Canada and Mexico of 25% unless the two neighbours limit the flow of migrants and fentanyl into the US.

"That means keeping our fiscal powder dry today, so we have the reserves we may need for a tariff war. That means eschewing costly political gimmicks, which we can ill afford," she wrote in a letter to Trudeau posted on X.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said the Fed had no legal authority to hold it, adding declaratively that it had no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

"That's the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed," Powell said.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: IMF agrees to release $650mn for Bangladesh’s fourth loan tranche

Bangladesh reaches agreement with the international lender on additional $750mn funding

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, has agreed to release $650 million for Bangladesh as part of the fourth tranche of its loan programme.

In addition, the international lender has reached a staff-level agreement with the Bangladesh to provide an extra $750 million in funding.

The additional financing aims to support the country’s foreign currency reserves, facilitate financial sector reforms, and help manage increasing economic pressures.

If approved by the IMF Executive Board, Bangladesh's total loan amount under the programme will increase from $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion.

As per the earlier plan, Bangladesh was scheduled to receive the loan in equal instalments by 2026.

The IMF team announced the agreement in a press release on Wednesday, following discussions with different government agencies, including the Bangladesh Bank, during their visit to Dhaka.

The release of the fourth tranche and approval of the new loan will depend on the decision of the IMF Executive Board, which will review the delegation's findings in an upcoming meeting.

The Washington-based financial institution concluded its meetings with policymakers and officials after a 13-strong delegation, headed by Chris Papageorgiou, assessed the implementation of policies during their visit from Dec 4 to Dec 18.

“Following the evaluation of the third tranche, we have reached an understanding with the Bangladeshi authorities on implementing the required policies. The final decision rests with the IMF Board,” said Chris.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha confirmed to bdnews24.com that the country will receive $650 million in the fourth tranche.



Title: Asia wary of Fed rate outlook, high bond yields

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway

Asian share markets were in a wary mood on Monday as surging bond yields challenged equity valuations, particularly for the richly priced tech sector, in a week packed with central bank meetings and major economic data.

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway.

The Federal Reserve will lead the pack on Wednesday with markets pricing a 96% probability it will cut rates by 25 basis points to a new range of 4.25% to 4.50%.

More important will be any guidance on future easing, including the "dot plot" forecasts of Fed members for rates over the next couple of years.

"We look for the updated dots to signal a median expectation for three cuts next year, down from four in the September projection," said JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli. "The median longer-run dot, which was 2.875% in September, we see moving up to 3% or maybe even 3.125%."

"That said, given the vagaries of trade and other policies next year, the signal from the dots may be even less useful than ordinarily."

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Yields on 10-year notes were up at 4.39%, having climbed 24 basis points last week alone, and threatening to breach a major bear target at 4.50%.

Rising yields make bonds more attractive versus equities while lifting the level that future cash flows are discounted at and possibly the cost of capital for companies.

Bitcoin grabbed the spotlight in early Asian trade on Monday, surging to a record high above $105,000 as it extended gains on bets Trump's return will usher in a cryptocurrency-friendly regulatory environment.

S&P 500 futures were a fraction lower on Monday, while Nasdaq futures eased 0.1%.

CHINA STRUGGLES

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed, having been flat last week.

Japan's Nikkei edged up 0.1%, while South Korea bounced 0.7% on pledges of government support.

China's blue chip index took a hit on Friday as investors awaited more detail on possible stimulus steps.

Over the weekend, an official at China's central bank said it had room to further cut the reserve requirement ratio, though credit numbers out last week showed past easing had done little to boost borrowing.

Figures on Chinese retail sales, industrial production and house prices for November are due out later Monday.

A range of surveys on global manufacturing are also due Monday, while US retail sales is due on Tuesday and a major inflation report on Friday.

The Bank of Japan, Bank of England and Norges Bank are expected to stand pat on Thursday, while the Riksbank is seen cutting rates and perhaps by 50 basis points.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

The dollar likewise held firm on the yen at 153.53 , having jumped almost 2.5% last week. The dollar index stood at 106.870 , after rising 0.9% last week.

The euro looked wobbly at $1.0508 , not helped by news ratings agency Moody's unexpectedly downgraded France on Friday.

The action came a few hours after French President Macron appointed veteran centrist Francois Bayrou as the country’s fourth premier in a year.

Political uncertainty was also clouding South Korea where the finance ministry vowed to support markets after President Yoon Suk Yeol was impeached.

A firm dollar combined with higher bond yields to restrain gold at $2,685 an ounce.

Bitcoin was having better luck, breaking above $105,000 for the first time and was last fetching $104,955.

Oil prices were supported around three-week highs by expectations that additional sanctions on Russia and Iran could tighten supplies.

Brent was down 2 cents at $74.47 a barrel, while US crude eased 12 cents to $71.17 per barrel.



