Category: https://bdnews24.com/economy

Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Bangladesh Bank looks at 'new mechanism' as dollar rates crawl up

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," says the managing director of Citizens Bank

As the demand in the import sector jumps ahead of Ramadan and the central bank preparing to boost its reserves, the price of the dollar has gone up.

Although Bangladesh Bank fixed the exchange rate at Tk 120, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127 on Tuesday. The money changing houses also sold dollars at a raised rate.

In consideration of the overall situation, Bangladesh Bank is pondering launching a 'new mechanism,' said its spokesperson Executive Director Husne Ara Shikha. A circular will be issued in this regard on Thursday, she said.

Demand for imports have surged as Ramadan looms in March. On the other hand, Bangladesh Bank aims to push net reserves up to $15.30 billion at the end of December to meet the condition imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As such, instead of selling, the central bank is purchasing dollars from the commercial banks. Under the circumstances, inflation, which was already increased in November, may increase further due to a hike in import prices.

"Dollar prices went up mainly because of the increased demand in the import business," said BB spokesperson Shikha.

There are a few reasons behind the exchange rate hike, a senior official at the central bank told bdnews24.com. "Mainly, the banks are increasing imports with the coming of Ramadan. This has pushed up the demand for dollars. However, the remittance and export flow is not enough to match the import demand," he explained.

Moreover, the central bank is purchasing dollars from commercial banks to increase its foreign currency reserves. Hence, many banks are selling dollars to Bangladesh Bank, instead of selling at the interbank level. "The foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars at an increased rate."

Banks purchase dollars from two sources - remitters and exporters, said the treasury head of a private bank.

The dollars bought from the exporters usually cost Tk 119 to Tk 120, while remittances are purchased at a slightly higher price. The authorities open LCs using an average of these two prices.

"Bangladesh Bank usually sells dollars to other banks, which it has halted for now. Instead, it is buying dollars from the banks to increase the reserves. Also, more LCs are opened before Ramadan. Hence, the banks need more dollars," the treasury head added.

"We didn't expect dollar prices to increase this much. It rose to Tk 127-128. Besides, Bangladesh Bank isn't selling dollars," said the managing director of Citizens Bank Mohammad Masum.

Masum said that one of the reasons behind the price hike was the surging demand for opening LCs in the import business. "On the other side, the IMF imposed a condition that the reserves shouldn't drop. Which means that the net reserve level should be maintained."

"If a bank buys remittances at a higher rate, it can't sell dollars at a lower rate. Nobody runs their business for losses. As per the law, you can't face financial loss in a foreign exchange business. This is an offence as per the banking law. Hence, the price is surging as the supply isn't sufficient," said a deputy managing director of a bank on condition of anonymity.

Inflation may rise further in mid-December with the rising exchange rate and hike in import costs. According to the updated information of the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), inflation stood at 11.38 percent in November. The figure was 10.87 percent the month before.

Bangladesh Bank introduced a ‘crawling peg,’ system for the exchange rate in May this year. This resulted in the rate jumping by Tk 7 and reached Tk 117. Then the rate was fixed at Tk 120 using the ‘crawling peg,’ system. Now Bangladesh Bank is looking into new options to address the exchange rate hike.



Title: Trump, not yet in office, already a figure in global economic policy

The US central bankers pencil in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation

US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS

The world's economic reckoning with the incoming Trump administration kicked off in earnest this week, with the US Federal Reserve flagging fewer rate cuts, a resignation in Canada over budgeting for tariffs and a heightened focus on cryptocurrencies.

The Fed cut rates as expected on Wednesday amid a busy year-end run of central bank meetings from Ottawa and Frankfurt to Tokyo and London that showed heightened uncertainty ahead of Donald Trump entering the White House in the new year.

Indeed, Fed officials not only dialled back projections for rate cuts in the face of stubborn inflation, Chair Jerome Powell said some in the bank were also trying to judge how Trump's planned tariffs, lower taxes and immigration curbs might affect policy.

The upshot was US central bankers pencilled in estimates for higher growth next year than previously estimated, but also notably higher inflation.

That left Powell repeatedly urging "caution" around additional rate cuts from here, which triggered a slide in stock prices and a recalibration of market estimates for further easing. Just a single Fed rate cut is now priced in for 2025.

"Some people did take a very preliminary step and started to incorporate highly conditional estimates of economic effects of policies into their forecasts at this meeting," Powell said when asked if Trump's policies factored into officials' thinking.

"Some people said they didn't do so, and some people didn't say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that but some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their writing down more uncertainty around inflation."

In Asia, The Bank of Japan on Thursday kept ultra-low interest rates as the threat of Trump's policies cast a shadow over the export-reliant economy.

"Uncertainty surrounding Japan's economy and prices remains high," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision.

A Reuters survey of Japanese businesses published last week showed nearly three-quarters expect Trump to have a negative effect on their operating environment, something BOJ officials may have to reckon with as the world's lone developed central bank is still trying to tighten policy.

Ahead of the Fed decision, rates had already been lowered last week by the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada, with both expected to deliver some additional easing in 2025 amid weakening outlooks.

While ECB President Christine Lagarde was vague about further rate cuts, she went out of her way to emphasize downside risks to growth, including from prospective trade tensions with the United States under Trump.

Rate decisions are still due in the coming hours from central banks in Sweden, Norway and the United Kingdom.

UPHEAVAL

Although Trump may have been just at the periphery of officials' thinking at the Fed, he was a central focus in Ottawa when Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland quit after clashing with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on how to handle possible US tariffs under the next US administration.

Freeland said the threat of new US tariffs represented a grave danger after Trump last month warned he would issue levies on goods imported from Canada and Mexico of 25% unless the two neighbours limit the flow of migrants and fentanyl into the US.

"That means keeping our fiscal powder dry today, so we have the reserves we may need for a tariff war. That means eschewing costly political gimmicks, which we can ill afford," she wrote in a letter to Trudeau posted on X.

Meanwhile, crypto market enthusiasm for Trump's notion of establishing a strategic reserve of bitcoin was dealt a setback when Powell said the Fed had no legal authority to hold it, adding declaratively that it had no plan to seek a change in the law so that it could.

"That's the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed," Powell said.

The remark contributed to a broad slide in crypto-related assets, including a 5% drop in bitcoin itself, its largest decline in more than three months.



Title: IMF agrees to release $650mn for Bangladesh’s fourth loan tranche

Bangladesh reaches agreement with the international lender on additional $750mn funding

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, has agreed to release $650 million for Bangladesh as part of the fourth tranche of its loan programme.

In addition, the international lender has reached a staff-level agreement with the Bangladesh to provide an extra $750 million in funding.

The additional financing aims to support the country’s foreign currency reserves, facilitate financial sector reforms, and help manage increasing economic pressures.

If approved by the IMF Executive Board, Bangladesh's total loan amount under the programme will increase from $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion.

As per the earlier plan, Bangladesh was scheduled to receive the loan in equal instalments by 2026.

The IMF team announced the agreement in a press release on Wednesday, following discussions with different government agencies, including the Bangladesh Bank, during their visit to Dhaka.

The release of the fourth tranche and approval of the new loan will depend on the decision of the IMF Executive Board, which will review the delegation's findings in an upcoming meeting.

The Washington-based financial institution concluded its meetings with policymakers and officials after a 13-strong delegation, headed by Chris Papageorgiou, assessed the implementation of policies during their visit from Dec 4 to Dec 18.

“Following the evaluation of the third tranche, we have reached an understanding with the Bangladeshi authorities on implementing the required policies. The final decision rests with the IMF Board,” said Chris.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha confirmed to bdnews24.com that the country will receive $650 million in the fourth tranche.



Title: Asia wary of Fed rate outlook, high bond yields

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway

Asian share markets were in a wary mood on Monday as surging bond yields challenged equity valuations, particularly for the richly priced tech sector, in a week packed with central bank meetings and major economic data.

Interest rates are expected to fall in the United States and Sweden, and hold steady in Japan, the UK and Norway.

The Federal Reserve will lead the pack on Wednesday with markets pricing a 96% probability it will cut rates by 25 basis points to a new range of 4.25% to 4.50%.

More important will be any guidance on future easing, including the "dot plot" forecasts of Fed members for rates over the next couple of years.

"We look for the updated dots to signal a median expectation for three cuts next year, down from four in the September projection," said JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli. "The median longer-run dot, which was 2.875% in September, we see moving up to 3% or maybe even 3.125%."

"That said, given the vagaries of trade and other policies next year, the signal from the dots may be even less useful than ordinarily."

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Investors have been steadily scaling back expectations of how far rates may fall, in part reflecting solid economic news and speculation President-elect Donald Trump's plans for tax cuts and tariffs would expand government borrowing while putting upward pressure on inflation.

Futures imply only two more cuts next year and rates bottoming out around 3.80%, much higher than just a few months ago. That outlook took a heavy toll on the Treasury market last week, where longer-dated yields recorded their largest weekly rise this year.

Yields on 10-year notes were up at 4.39%, having climbed 24 basis points last week alone, and threatening to breach a major bear target at 4.50%.

Rising yields make bonds more attractive versus equities while lifting the level that future cash flows are discounted at and possibly the cost of capital for companies.

Bitcoin grabbed the spotlight in early Asian trade on Monday, surging to a record high above $105,000 as it extended gains on bets Trump's return will usher in a cryptocurrency-friendly regulatory environment.

S&P 500 futures were a fraction lower on Monday, while Nasdaq futures eased 0.1%.

CHINA STRUGGLES

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed, having been flat last week.

Japan's Nikkei edged up 0.1%, while South Korea bounced 0.7% on pledges of government support.

China's blue chip index took a hit on Friday as investors awaited more detail on possible stimulus steps.

Over the weekend, an official at China's central bank said it had room to further cut the reserve requirement ratio, though credit numbers out last week showed past easing had done little to boost borrowing.

Figures on Chinese retail sales, industrial production and house prices for November are due out later Monday.

A range of surveys on global manufacturing are also due Monday, while US retail sales is due on Tuesday and a major inflation report on Friday.

The Bank of Japan, Bank of England and Norges Bank are expected to stand pat on Thursday, while the Riksbank is seen cutting rates and perhaps by 50 basis points.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

In currency markets, the dollar has been underpinned by rising yields and put the squeeze on a raft of emerging market currencies, forcing intervention in some cases.

The dollar likewise held firm on the yen at 153.53 , having jumped almost 2.5% last week. The dollar index stood at 106.870 , after rising 0.9% last week.

The euro looked wobbly at $1.0508 , not helped by news ratings agency Moody's unexpectedly downgraded France on Friday.

The action came a few hours after French President Macron appointed veteran centrist Francois Bayrou as the country’s fourth premier in a year.

Political uncertainty was also clouding South Korea where the finance ministry vowed to support markets after President Yoon Suk Yeol was impeached.

A firm dollar combined with higher bond yields to restrain gold at $2,685 an ounce.

Bitcoin was having better luck, breaking above $105,000 for the first time and was last fetching $104,955.

Oil prices were supported around three-week highs by expectations that additional sanctions on Russia and Iran could tighten supplies.

Brent was down 2 cents at $74.47 a barrel, while US crude eased 12 cents to $71.17 per barrel.



Title: ADP progress rate for first 5 months sinks to lowest in 15 years

Experts blame the slowdown to political disruptions, power transition, a worsening law and order, and administrative reshuffles

Bangladesh’s development work, which slowed down during the power transition, has not regained momentum, impacting the implementation of the interim government’s ADP under a “go-slow” policy.

In the five months to November of the current 2024-25 fiscal year, ADP implementation reached 12.29 percent compared with 17.06 percent during the same period last year – marking a decline of 4.77 percentage points.

According to data released by the Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division, or IMED, of the planning ministry, ADP progress in the first five months has not been this low in the last 15 fiscal years.

Experts attribute the slowdown to disruptions caused by political movements, the power transition in August, a worsening law and order, and administrative reshuffles, which have collectively hindered the implementation of government development programmes.

According to the latest statistics released by the IMED, Tk 342.14 billion was spent under the ADP during the July-November period of the current fiscal year. This is significantly lower than the Tk 468.57 billion spent during the same period last fiscal year.

In percentage terms, the lowest ADP implementation rate was 16.84 percent in the 2015-16 fiscal year.

The deposed Awami League government had allocated roughly Tk 2.78 trillion for the ADP in the current fiscal year when the budget was passed.

After the Awami League was removed from power, the interim government prioritised project implementation based on necessity. As a result, funding for many projects initiated by the previous government was reduced, leading to the suspension of several ongoing projects. Consequently, overall ADP expenditure declined, according to relevant officials.

The latest IMED report reveals that the implementation rate for November was 4.40 percent, or Tk 122.36 billion, compared with 5.52 percent in November of the 2023-24 fiscal year. Typically, ADP spending is lower in the early months of a fiscal year, but political instability has further reduced the rate this time.

In the previous fiscal years—2020-21, 2021-22, and 2022-23—the ADP implementation rates for the first five months were 17.93 percent, 18.61 percent, and 18.41 percent, respectively.

Speaking at a workshop on Monday, Prof M Abu Yusuf of the Development Studies Department at Dhaka University noted that the decline in ADP implementation is "not surprising" given the current circumstances.

A member of the White Paper Committee on the economy, he added: "However, the interim government must consider how to provide relief to the general public during this period of high inflation."

Despite being in office for four months, Prof Yusuf noted, the government has yet to provide clear guidelines on how the annual programme of planned public sector projects should proceed, he added.

"If just 2.3 percent of the current fiscal year’s budget were reallocated to three key food-based social safety net programmes, it would double the allocation for these initiatives," he explained.

The three key programmes—combining urban and rural areas—are the Food-Friendly Programme, or FFP, Open Market Sales, or OMS, and Food for Work, or FFW.



Title: Future tax incentives for businesses will be reduced, says Salehuddin

The finance advisor points out the failure of regulatory bodies to act against rule-breakers

Finance Advisor Salehuddin Ahmed has suggested reducing the incentives or tax breaks currently offered to businesses in the future.

"It is not possible to keep giving tax breaks forever. Logical taxes must be paid, and only reasonable exemptions will be granted,” he said during the annual conference of the International Business Forum of Bangladesh, or IBFB, in Dhaka on Sunday.

Referring to discussions with the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, Salehuddin said: “This morning, we had a meeting with the IMF. They are saying that tax exemptions must be reduced.”

The advisor said Bangladesh cricket all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan should have been fined two years ago for market manipulation.

He also pointed out that regulatory bodies such as Bangladesh Bank and the National Board of Revenue, or NBR, had failed to curb corruption.

“Banks, financial institutions, businessmen, and different organisations have broken the law, but no appropriate actions have been taken against them," said Salehuddin.

He added, "So, the blame cannot only be placed on politicians; these regulatory bodies are also at fault."

Salehuddin, the former governor of the Bangladesh Bank, highlighted that regulatory bodies had manipulated data on multiple occasions.

"Qualified people were not allowed to work in these areas. Even when they wanted to, their efforts were blocked by undue influence," he said.



Title: Italy sees weaker 2024 GDP, with industrial sector in trouble, economy minister says

The government in September set an unadjusted 1% growth target for this year

A view shows Milan's skyline during sunset in Milan, Italy, July 6, 2023. REUTERS

Italy will likely end this year with an annual economic growth rate of 0.7%, Economy Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti said on Thursday, warning that the industrial sector risked slumping.

Speaking at a political event promoted by Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's Brothers of Italy party, Giorgetti said the estimate was adjusted for the number of days worked.

The government in September set an unadjusted 1% growth target for this year.

Giorgetti said the disappointing performance of Germany's economy was weighing on Italy, adding that the industry sector was the main cause of concern for the government.

"We see signs of a nosedive," he said.

However, the GDP downward revision "doesn't change our public finance targets," the minister added.

Italy hopes to bring its deficit below the European Union's 3% of gross domestic product (GDP) ceiling in 2026 from 3.8 targeted this year.

Part of the lower-than-expected growth is also related to delays in spending European Union's post-COVID recovery funds, which has impacted the economy.

Italy is due to receive 194.4 billion euros ($203.81 billion) in cheap loans and grants from the bloc's Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) by 2026, more than any other state in absolute terms.

Speaking at the same event on Thursday, EU Affairs Minister Tommaso Foti said Italy wanted to replace some planned projects that Rome will be unable to complete by the 2026 deadline, with others that could be wrapped up within the allowed timeframe.

"We are going towards a rescheduling next February," Foti said.

To support the economy, the government wants to cut the IRES corporate tax for those companies that make investments and new hirings under certain conditions.

The measure has an estimated cost of around 400 million euros, which Giorgetti said Rome planned to cover by seeking an additional contributions from banks.

Italy expects to raise more than 5 billion euros from the financial sector over the next three years through a package of measures already included in the government's 2025 budget.



Title: US regulator's 'problem bank' list grows as industry profits dip

The total assets for banks on that list climbed $3.9 billion to $87.3 billion, the FDIC said

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp (FDIC) logo is seen in this photo.  www.investopedia.com

A top US bank regulator added two banks to its so-called "problem bank" list in the third quarter, while overall industry profits dipped 8.6%, the regulator said.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation typically does not identify firms that are added to the list, which includes banks that have received particularly low confidential scores from bank supervisors. FDIC Chairman Martin Gruenberg said the overall level of problem banks, now totaling 68 firms or 1.5% of all banks, is "not atypical."

The total assets for banks on that list climbed $3.9 billion to $87.3 billion, the FDIC said.

On Thursday, the FDIC reported quarterly profits for the banking sector were down slightly after banks enjoyed a one-time surge in the prior quarter.

The slightly lower profits were primarily due to the fact that banks reported one-time gains on equity security transactions in the second quarter. But those missing funds were partially offset by strong net interest income and growing revenue, the regulator said in its quarterly profit report. Bank profits were up slightly when compared with first-quarter numbers.

"The banking industry continued to show resilience in the third quarter. Net interest income and the net interest margin increased substantially this quarter," Gruenberg said in a prepared statement.

There were some signs of caution in the latest figures. The ratio of past-due or non-accrual loans in the commercial real estate sector ticked up to 2.07%, the highest level recorded since 2013, as borrowers continue to grapple with high levels of office vacancies following the COVID-19 pandemic.

Overall though, the latest FDIC report suggests stability in the banking sector. Net interest income rose by $4.5 billion in the quarter, the net interest margin was up for banks of all sizes, and deposits rose 1.1% to $194.6 billion. Unrealised losses on securities fell 29%, as overall interest rates fell.



Title: HSBC, World Bank's IFC launch $1bn trade finance programme for emerging markets

The deal aims to support cross-border trade and bolster exports in critical industries as economies face geopolitical tensions and trade barriers

A view of the logo of HSBC bank on a wall outside a branch in Mexico City, Mexico June 14, 2024. REUTERS

HSBC  and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFC) will jointly provide funding to trade transactions valued at up to $1 billion, in a move to help fill a gap in financing for emerging market trade.

IFC and HSBC said on Thursday they would equally share the risk on a portfolio of trade-related assets held by emerging-market banks in 20 countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East, according to a joint statement.

The deal aims to support cross-border trade and bolster exports in critical industries as economies face geopolitical tensions and trade barriers that could create uncertainty for supply chains and threaten economic growth.

"There is a substantial and ongoing trade-finance gap in emerging markets in the Asia-Pacific region," said Riccardo Puliti, IFC's regional vice president for Asia Pacific, in the statement.

Demand for trade finance far outpaces supply, especially in emerging markets, with the global trade finance gap last estimated at $2.5 trillion, according to a report from the Asian Development Bank.

"Reducing the trade finance gap and improving access to finance will be central to fostering growth and sustainability across Asia and the region's supply chains," said Aditya Gahlaut, co-head of global trade solutions, Asia Pacific, at HSBC in the statement.

The new facility is set up under IFC's Global Trade Liquidity Program, which has supported more than $80 billion in global trade volume through nearly 30,000 transactions over the past 20 years.



Title: ADB approves $600mn loan for Bangladesh amid revenue crunch

The loan will help improve transparency and accountability while boosting domestic resource mobilisation, says the agency

The Asian Development Bank, or ADB, has approved a $600 million loan to support Bangladesh as it navigates a challenging period in revenue collection.

This loan will support efforts to improve domestic resource mobilisation, alongside other initiatives to strengthen the country’s economic framework.

On Wednesday, Govinda Bar, the team leader of external affairs at ADB's Bangladesh Resident Mission, shared details of the loan authorisation in a statement.

With a tax-to-GDP ratio of only 7.4 percent, the lowest in the world, Bangladesh is grappling with major hurdles in revenue collection.

This is referred to as “policy-based” lending, aimed at strengthening the country's domestic resource management, improving public investment efficiency, supporting structural reforms for private sector development, and enhancing transparency and good governance.

The loan programme includes initiatives for digitalisation, “green” projects, rationalising tax incentives, and boosting taxpayer morale.

One of the objectives is to enhance the transparency and efficiency of government investment projects through digitalisation.

The loan aims to simplify the country’s regulatory environment, promote private sector development, and encourage foreign direct investment by offering “equal benefits” for all.

To facilitate business operations, an integrated online platform has been created, which will offer over 130 services.

ADB Regional Lead Economist Aminur Rahman said, "Following the political shift in Bangladesh, ADB is supporting the country’s rapid development efforts with this loan.”

“Following the political shift in Bangladesh, ADB is committed to supporting the country’s rapid development through this loan.

He added, “The reform goals will focus on improving economic management, governance, and competitiveness.”



Title: Why didn't 'all-knowing' Bangladesh Bank, BFIU stop money being smuggled out of the country?

Experts blame the regulators for turning a blind eye despite clear signs of financial misconduct

Fresh findings from the interim government’s White Paper Committee on money laundering have given rise to questions about why Bangladesh Bank and the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit, or BFIU, the nation’s top financial watchdogs, did not step in to stop the illicit flow of funds.

Despite existing laws and regulations, money laundering through the banking sector has risen over time, and financial sector experts believe the two regulatory bodies cannot dodge the blame for this.

Experts argue that it was the responsibility of these agencies to curb illicit financial flows.

However, instead of stepping in, they allegedly aided in the laundering process.

Transparency International Bangladesh, or TIB, Executive Director Iftekharuzzaman directly blamed officials of both organisations for their failure, suggesting that their negligence outweighed any legal weaknesses.

The white paper submitted to Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus on Dec 1 estimates that during the 15-year reign of the ousted Awami League government, around $16 billion was laundered out of the country annually.

The committee, set up to assess the state of the nation’s economy, said $240 billion, equivalent to Tk 28.8 trillion at current exchange rates, was siphoned out of the country during the Awami League’s three consecutive terms in power.

The BFIU, tasked with tackling irregularities in the financial sector and preventing money laundering, failed to act effectively, despite being aware of the scale of the crime.

The unit’s former chief Abu Hena Md Razee Hassan, who also served as deputy governor of Bangladesh Bank, pointed to political pressure and restrictions from senior officials as key obstacles that hindered his department’s efforts to combat these activities.

Al Amin, a professor in the Department of Accounting and Information Systems at Dhaka University, told bdnews24.com: “International research group Global Financial Integrity [GFI] says money laundering increased because of the corrupt actions of regulators, government officials, businesspeople, and bureaucrats. The whole system has been working together. The regulators and officials definitely know who are behind it."

Bankers and industry insiders have claimed that most money laundering occurred via banking channels, raising concerns about whether the central bank’s measures were sufficient to tackle the issue.

Bangladesh Bank spokesperson Husne Ara Sikha told bdnews24.com, “It’s not possible to comment on such a major issue immediately. If you submit a written query, we can respond after consulting with the governor.”

bdnews24.com submitted written questions over a week ago, but no response was received from the central bank as of Tuesday.

Governor Ahsan H Mansur also did not respond to attempts for comment.

NEW INITIATIVES

Since taking office, the interim administration has prioritised efforts to recover funds siphoned off to foreign countries.

Governor Mansur and several advisors have talked about efforts to retrieve these illicit funds.

Yunus has also sought help from the United Kingdom, the World Bank, and the European Union to recover these stolen assets.

A high-level inter-agency task force has been restructured under the governor's leadership.

The goal of the task force is to bring back assets that were smuggled out of the country and focus on asset management.

QUESTIONS RAISED OVER BFIU’S ACTIVITIES

The BFIU continued operating as a unit under the Bangladesh Bank even when the Awami League formed the government after the 2008 general election.

However, to comply with international pressure and requirements, the unit was made an independent body in 2012.

Despite this, since its establishment, the central bank has continued to provide BFIU with staffing, funding, and infrastructure support.

Even after becoming independent under the new legal framework, BFIU's first chief executive officer, or CEO, was Razee, the then deputy governor of Bangladesh Bank.

He remained the head of the organisation even when it was under the central bank.

Razee served as the head of BFIU until September 2021, extending his tenure multiple times.

This meant he held the position for most of the Awami League's three terms in office.

Regarding the failure to prevent large-scale money laundering, the former BFIU chief told bdnews24.com: "We were under constant pressure, facing restrictions from political and higher authorities. They dictated what could or couldn't be pursued, limiting our actions."

Without revealing who the "higher-ups" were, he added: "We had weaknesses in our legal and policy frameworks. The policy was weak, and there were flaws in implementation. Taking advantage of those weaknesses and exerting influence, money laundering was happening, and we could understand that."

Razee continued, “As regulators, we needed capacity building. We needed support from bankers. At one point, many banks didn’t have the staff to handle this. Now, capacity building has improved.”

Following the change in government, no new head has been appointed to BFIU, and an executive director is currently overseeing its operations.

Despite submitting written questions to the spokesperson of the central bank, no response was received within a week regarding the BFIU’s failure to prevent money laundering.

There had been dissatisfaction with the BFIU’s performance even during the Sheikh Hasina regime.

On Aug 11, 2016, the issue of the agency's performance was discussed in a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Ministry of Finance.

Abdur Razzak, the then chairman of the committee, told bdnews24.com: “In 2013, Tk 9.96 billion was laundered. Over the last decade, an average of Tk 5 billion was siphoned off each year. Money was being funnelled out through over-invoicing and under-invoicing. So, what exactly is the Financial Intelligence Unit doing?”

“We are deeply frustrated by this matter. Money is being laundered in Canada’s Begum Para, and we are third in Malaysia’s My Second Home [MM2H] programme. Yet, not a single person has been identified, and not even one case has been brought forward.”

The former agriculture minister said, “In May 2015, 400-500 tonnes of rice worth 800-1000 dollars were imported, yet on paper the figure was shown as 400-500 dollars. These issues need to be investigated.”

RISING MONEY LAUNDERING LINKED TO LOAN STRUCTURING?

There are primarily two methods through which money is laundered. The first involves over-invoicing and under-invoicing in import-export transactions, typically carried out through banking channels.

All legitimate transactions between Bangladesh and the outside world occur through these banking channels.

The second method involves hundi, where transactions happen at an individual level without any legal documents.

To curb money laundering, there’s no shortage of laws and government initiatives.

Alongside the measures taken by Bangladesh Bank, there is also a National Coordination Committee to tackle money laundering and prevent financing for terrorism.

The committee consists of the governor, the head of the BFIU, heads of financial regulators, the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission, or ACC, and secretaries from different ministries.

The Money Laundering Prevention Act (Amendment), 2015 was enacted to curb this issue, followed by the Money Laundering Prevention Rules, 2019.

However, these measures often remain on paper while money continues to be laundered at large.

Former BFIU head Razee also links this to the weak structure and limitations of human resources within Bangladesh Bank’s loan restructuring and rescheduling policies.

“Bangladesh Bank repeatedly creates policies for rescheduling defaulted loans. What did defaulters do after not paying? How could they launder the money if they didn’t have it? The failure to recover the loans is also a cause of the money being laundered," he said.

Masud Biswas, the former head of the BFIU, also held bankers accountable for the rise in money laundering.

During a press conference at the central bank in February, he said: “Bankers are to blame for this. They are not performing their duties properly.”

When asked why incidents of money laundering were increasing, Masud said: “80 percent of money laundering is trade-based [foreign trade, such as imports and exports]. The banking sector is the most vulnerable for money laundering.”

He continued, “Money laundering is not decreasing because of us. The responsibility for loan classification lies with the banks; they are the ones who handle it. If they don’t do it, how can it be done? Bangladesh Bank cannot inspect everything all the time. In many branches, inspections only happen every three years.”

However, Selim RF Hussain, chairman of the Association of Bankers Bangladesh, or ABB, and managing director of BRAC Bank, accused central bank officials of being responsible for the banking sector's issues.

During a discussion organised by the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management, or BIBM, in Dhaka’s Mirpur on Wednesday, he said: “Central bank officials interfere with promotions, transfers, and hiring in commercial banks, often favouring their own preferred individuals.”

Bangladesh Bank provides the opportunity to restructure and reschedule non-performing loans to show them as regular.

In 2015, under special consideration, non-performing loans worth nearly Tk 120 billion from 15 industrial groups were rescheduled.

At that time, the central bank said this concession of rescheduling loans with a 2 percent payment would be granted only once, in order to protect the industrial sector at the request of businesspeople.

However, later on, the Bangladesh Bank was forced to extend the rescheduling opportunity to loans exceeding Tk 5 billion in default, most of which have now turned into non-performing loans again.

By rescheduling repeatedly, defaulted loans are not shown as non-performing, pushing the total defaulted loans figure to Tk 2.88 trillion by September.

Economists in the country and international bodies have always raised concerns over the central bank's figures on bad loans.

The white paper on the economy reveals that the actual amount of non-performing loans stands at Tk 6.75 trillion.

Economists believe that a large portion of these non-performing loans has been laundered. This observation is further strengthened by the recent comments of the energy advisor.

Two major industrial groups, Beximco and S Alam, have borrowed massive amounts from the country's banking sector, with a large portion of these loans now on the verge of default.

During a seminar on Nov 30 organised by the Economic Reporters Forum, or ERF, Energy Advisor Fouzul Kabir Khan revealed that both companies have no money in their bank accounts.

“They can't even pay salaries, and their entire balance sheet is empty,” he added.

Beximco Group alone owes over Tk 270 billion to Janata Bank, and more than Tk 360 billion in total, including loans from other banks and bonds.

S Alam Group has taken loans worth Tk 800 billion from Islami Bank Bangladesh PLC, along with loans from other Shariah-based banks and National Bank.

When asked about the risk of loan defaults in the current situation, Ashish Kumar Nath, deputy general manager of S Alam Group’s Chittagong office, told bdnews24.com: “We are working to restore normal operations for all companies, including those dealing in consumer goods. However, some companies still have inactive bank accounts.”

“S Alam Group also participated in a meeting with the commerce advisor, where we requested support from the government," he added. "We also emphasised the need for administrative assistance to revive the businesses and repay the bank loans.”

ARE OFFICIALS ASLO INVOLVED?

Police’s Criminal Investigation Department, or CID, is investigating former BFUI head Masud over money laundering charges.

He resigned in August amid pressure after the fall of the Awami League government.

TIB boss Iftekharuzzaman said, “A huge amount of money has been laundered from the country, and both the central bank and BFUI have been complicit; they know everything.”

Razee argues that political and economic pressure prevented the complete prevention of money laundering.

Iftekharuzzaman believes that officials in these institutions also benefited from the crime, saying: "The recent investigations into Masud Biswas highlight that he too is being investigated for money laundering."

He added, "Just as the launderers have gained, so have the officials of the supporting agencies, who helped these criminals for personal gain."

“Pressure is always there, and it will remain.”

However, Iftekharuzzaman emphasised that not all officials were involved in the wrongdoing.

“There are honest and courageous officials,” he said, adding: “If necessary, their legal protection can be enhanced. However, those officials who benefited from facilitating money laundering must be held accountable and punished. This is achievable under the current government, and it would serve as a precedent for the future.”

When trying to get a response from Masud about his role in anti-money laundering actions during his tenure, no reply was received.

[Writing in English by Sheikh Fariha Bristy]



Title: Reserves reach $20 billion as Bangladesh Bank buys dollars to meet IMF conditions

Bangladesh Bank aims for $15.30 billion in net reserves by December end

Foreign exchange reserves have risen sharply within a week as the central bank purchased dollars from commercial banks to meet the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, conditions.

Bangladesh Bank said foreign exchange reserves stood at $19.95 billion under the BPM-6 method, up from $19.20 billion on Dec 11—an increase of $753 million in a week.

A senior central bank official told bdnews24.com: “Bangladesh Bank wants to increase its net reserves to $15.30 billion by the end of December in compliance with the IMF conditions.

“That is why it is buying from commercial banks instead of selling dollars.”

When asked if the reserves were rising due to dollar purchases, Bangladesh Bank Executive Director and Spokesperson Husne Ara Shikha told bdnews24.com: “I will not explain how the reserves are increasing.”

The central bank's dollar purchases have caused the value of the US currency to rise against the taka.

On Wednesday, some private banks bought remittances at Tk 126.50 to Tk 127, up from Tk 120 a month earlier, while money exchanges sold dollars at even higher rates.

Another official said: “Many banks are selling dollars to the central bank instead of the interbank market, and foreign exchange houses are also selling dollars to banks at higher rates.”

Last month, the reserves fell to $18 billion due to the payment of import liabilities through the Asian Clearing Union, or ACU.

As remittances and export earnings flowed in, reserves rose, though they remained below levels seen when the Sheikh Hasina government fell in August.

Bangladesh Bank reported $20.48 billion in reserves on Jul 30, a figure that remained unchanged on Aug 21.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reserves peaked at a record $48 billion.

However, rising global fuel and food prices, coupled with the Ukraine war, drove up import costs, leading to a steady decline in reserves since 2022.

In the past two fiscal years, Bangladesh Bank sold dollars from reserves to facilitate government Letters of Credit, or LCs, for commercial banks, further depleting foreign exchange reserves.

Following Hasina’s departure, Ahsan H Mansur assumed the role of Bangladesh Bank governor.

At a press conference, he announced a halt to dollar sales from reserves, saying this would boost reserves and eliminate the risk of further decline.

However, reserves have yet to cross the $20 billion mark even after four months, despite repeated assurances from Bangladesh Bank about their growth.



Title: Fourth tranche of IMF loan may arrive in February

The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising, the IMF delegation says

The International Monetary Fund, or IMF, will release the fourth tranche of its ongoing loan programme, amounting to $645 million, following the approval the executive board at a meeting in February.

Chris Papageorgiou, chief of the Development Macroeconomics Division in the Research Department of the IMF, made the announcement at a press conference at the finance ministry on Thursday.

Before the release of the fourth instalment, a 13-strong delegation came to review the progress of the reform proposals made by the IMF on Bangladesh’s economy.

Before returning, they held a press conference at the ministry.

Regarding the release of the money, the head of the IMF delegation said the proposal for the release of the tranche will be raised at the IMF Executive Board meeting on Feb 5. It will be distributed once it is approved.

Papageorgiou said, “The overall picture of Bangladesh's economy is still not very promising. Inflation remains out of control for a long time. The current inflation rate of 9.6 percent is much higher than the IMF's estimate. Bangladesh Bank will have to play a more active role in controlling the crisis.”

He said the IMF is positive about providing assistance to Bangladesh. However, the growth of domestic income and the reform of the banking sector must continue.

Regarding the printing of new currency notes, he said: “The printing of new money is also a matter of concern. It may bring a temporary relief, but not for a long time.”



Title: Biden's daunting exit list: Gaza ceasefire, Ukraine aid, US Steel

He may pursue a limited security pact with Saudi Arabia, strengthening both against Iran

US President Joe Biden delivers remarks during the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington, DC, US, Dec 9, 2024. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz/File Photo

With a month left in the White House, US President Joe Biden has a long list of foreign and domestic policy actions he hopes to get done before president-elect Donald Trump assumes office, where the Republican is expected to try to reverse much of Biden's record.

Atop Biden's list are final, hurried pushes to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of American hostages abroad, distribute more aid to Ukraine, issue more pardons to non-violent criminals, forgive more student debt, release more funding for semiconductor chip production, and potentially block the sale of US Steel, according to White House aides and an internal memo seen by Reuters.

The list reflects how drawn-out and bloody wars in Europe and the Middle East on Biden's watch hijacked his legacy overseas, where he promised to restore and strengthen American leadership. Simultaneously, Democrats' election failures have shaken his legacy at home.

Biden, 82, promised to remake the US economy as president and clocked significant legislative wins in the first half of his four-year term, including the bipartisan infrastructure and inflation reduction bills.

But major lawmaking essentially ground to a halt after Republicans won the House in the 2022 midterm elections. Some Democrats blame Biden's refusal to step aside as candidate for their colossal defeats this November, most notably Vice President Kamala Harris' loss to Trump in every battleground state.

Securing a ceasefire deal in the war between Israel and Hamas that Palestinian authorities say has killed over 45,000 in Gaza, and bolstering Ukraine's defence in its nearly 3-year war with Russia are top priorities, White House officials say.

"This is not an uncommon thing for presidents at the end of their term or in the transition period if there are unresolved conflicts," said US presidential historian and Vanderbilt University professor Thomas Alan Schwartz.

A ceasefire deal in the 14-month war in Gaza could happen in the coming days, with the administration making a forceful diplomatic push this week. Similar hopeful discussions have flopped in the past, but the scope of this agreement is narrower.

Biden is also rushing weapons to Ukraine for fear that Trump, who often boasts of his close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, may be less likely to aid Ukraine's war effort.

He may also seek to close a stripped-down security pact with Saudi Arabia, which could strengthen both countries against Iran. The oil-rich Middle East power rejected Biden's condition of normalising relations with Israel and consequently abandoned talks of a binding mutual defence treaty with the US.

HOME FRONT

Biden's final domestic policy sprint will include distributing the remaining funds he secured through his landmark investment legislation, including high-speed internet funding to states, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters. In January, he is expected to announce a $2,000 prescription drug cost cap for Medicare recipients, and he will work with Congress to get federal judges confirmed until the last minute, the memo said.

The stage is all but set for Biden to block the sale of US Steel to an overseas buyer as soon as next week, something he has promised to do for nearly a year as he touts his mission to keep and expand manufacturing on US soil.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which reviews deals for national security risks, has a Dec 23 deadline to approve the deal, extend the review, or recommend Biden scuttle it.

On this issue, Biden and Trump agree: Trump said earlier this month that he would block the deal.

Other priorities involve policies or programmes that Trump is likely to oppose, including efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change.

The Treasury Department is expected as soon as today to issue its highly contested final guidance for the Inflation Reduction Act's tax credit for hydrogen projects, and Biden officials are conferring with EU peers on locking in methane emissions before Trump takes office.

The Commerce Department is rapidly awarding its remaining funds to boost US semiconductor chip manufacturing, which were allocated by Biden's CHIPS and Science Act. Trump has criticised the programme's price tag, casting its future in doubt.



Title: Sweden ends funding for UN Palestinian aid agency UNRWA

It plans to increase Gaza aid to 800 million crowns next year

A Palestinian carries an aid box distributed by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Deir Al-Balah, central Gaza Strip, Nov 4, 2024. REUTERS/Ramadan Abed/File Photo

Sweden will no longer fund the UN refugee agency for Palestinians (UNRWA) and will instead provide increased overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza via other channels, the Nordic country said on Friday.

Israel, which says it will ban UNRWA operations in the country from late January, accuses the agency of being involved in the Oct 7, 2023, Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the 14-month-old war in Gaza.

Sweden's decision was in response to the Israeli ban, as it will make channelling aid via the agency more difficult, the country's aid minister, Benjamin Dousa, said.

"Large parts of UNRWA's operations in Gaza are either going to be severely weakened or completely impossible," Dousa told Reuters. "For the government, the most important thing is that support gets through."

Dousa said Sweden "in no way" supported Israel's law and had repeatedly expressed its criticism. "Israel must do much more to ensure humanitarian access to Gaza," he said.

The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA's operations in the West Bank and Gaza but it will have a severe impact on UNRWA's ability to work. Top UN officials describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza's aid response.

Sweden plans to lift its overall humanitarian aid to Gaza next year to 800 million Swedish crowns ($72.44 million) from 451 million spent this year, the foreign ministry said.

Aid will flow via several organisations including the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN Populations Fund (UNFPA) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the ministry added.

The Palestinian embassy in Stockholm said in a statement: "We reject the idea of finding alternatives to UNRWA, which has a special mandate to provide services to Palestinian refugees." The refugee population relies on UNRWA healthcare, education, emergency relief and humanitarian assistance, it said.

The UN General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month, demanding Israel respect the agency's mandate and "enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction".

UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X: "Defunding UNRWA now will undermine decades of Sweden’s investment in human development including by denying access to education for hundreds of thousands of girls and boys across the region."

Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Sharren Haskel thanked Dousa for a meeting they had this week and for Sweden's decision to drop its support for UNRWA.

"There are worthy and viable alternatives for humanitarian aid, and I appreciate the willingness to listen and adopt a different approach," she said.

The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved in the Oct 7, 2023 Hamas attack and had been fired. A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job.



Title: Israel's Netanyahu eyes Iran after triumphs over Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria

As Iran weakens, Israel rises as the dominant regional power

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks at a ceremony for military combat officers at an army base near Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, Oct 31, 2024. REUTERS/Amir Cohen/File Photo

2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his country's arch foe Iran.

The veteran Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals: tightening his military control over Gaza, thwarting Iran's nuclear ambitions and capitalising on the dismantling of Tehran's allies -- Palestinian Hamas, Lebanon's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

Assad's collapse, the elimination of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu.

Without Syria, the alliances Tehran has nurtured for decades have unravelled. As Iran's influence weakens, Israel is emerging as the dominant power in the region.

Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran's nuclear ambitions and missile programme, applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel.

Iran, Middle East observers say, faces a stark choice: Either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations.

"Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack, particularly against its nuclear programme," said Joost R. Hiltermann, Middle East and North Africa Program Director of the International Crisis Group. "I wouldn't be surprised if Israel did it, but that doesn't get rid of Iran."

"If they (Iranians) do not back down, Trump and Netanyahu might strike, as nothing now prevents them," said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib, referring to President-elect Donald Trump. Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership, having demonstrated pragmatism in the past, may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation.

Trump, who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear goals, is likely to step up sanctions on Iran's oil industry, despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy.

DEFINING LEGACY

Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza, Netanyahu's long-running corruption trial, which resumed in December, will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy. For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza war in 2023, Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis.

With 2024 coming to an end, the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old Gaza war and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave, according to sources close to the negotiations.

But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority (PA), which Netanyahu rejects. Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over.

"Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising. Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza," Khatib told Reuters.

For Netanyahu, such a result would mark a strategic victory, consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision: Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel's long-term control over Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state.

The Gaza war erupted when Hamas militants stormed into Israel on Oct 7, 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people, health authorities there say, displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins.

While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities, it would not address the deeper, decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Arab and Western officials say.

On the ground, prospects for a Palestinian state, an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu's government, have become increasingly unattainable, with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views.

A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic "No Future in Palestine" - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians.

Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict, "any resolution would be on Israel’s terms," said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group.

"It's over when it comes to a Palestinian state, but the Palestinians are still there," he said.

In Trump's previous term, Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins, including the “Deal of the Century,” a US-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The plan, if implemented, marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations.

It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank, including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley. It would also recognise Jerusalem as the "undivided capital of Israel" - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital, a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions.

SYRIA AT CRITICAL CROSSROADS

Across the border from Israel, Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) rebel forces, led by Ahmad al-Sharaa, better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani.

Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria, where the military and police force have collapsed. HTS has to rebuild from scratch, securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from jihadists, remnants of the Assad regime, and other adversaries.

The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS, once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy, reverts to a rigid Islamist ideology.

The group’s ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria, home to diverse communities of Sunnis, Shi'ites, Alawites, Kurds, Druze and Christians.

"If they succeed in that (Syrian nationalism) there's hope for Syria, but if they revert to their comfort zone of quite strongly ideologically-tainted Islamism, then it's going to be divisive in Syria," said Hiltermann.

"You could have chaos and a weak Syria for a long time, just like we saw in Libya and Iraq."



Title: Elon Musk gives nod to German far-right party as election looms

He backs multiple anti-immigration parties in Europe

Tesla CEO and X owner Elon Musk listens as US President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with House Republicans at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Washington, DC, US on Nov 13, 2024. ALLISON ROBBERT/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo

US billionaire Elon Musk, set to join President-elect Donald Trump's administration as an outside adviser, waded into Germany's election campaign on Friday, calling the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) the country's saviour.

The AfD is running second in opinion polls and might be able to thwart either a centre-right or centre-left majority, but Germany's mainstream, more centrist parties have vowed to shun support from the AfD at national level.

Europe's leading power is expected to vote on Feb 23 after a centre-left coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz collapsed.

"Only the AfD can save Germany," Musk wrote in a post on his social media platform, X.

Musk, the world's richest person, has already expressed support for other anti-immigration parties across Europe.

The German government said it had taken note of Musk's post but declined to give any further comment at its regular press conference.

Musk reposted a message by German right-wing influencer Naomi Seibt that criticised Friedrich Merz, chancellor candidate for the conservatives, who are comfortably ahead in surveys.

Matthias Miersch, secretary-general of Scholz's Social Democrats, told the media outlet t-online that Germany did not need foreign influences or "Trumpism", adding: "Stay out, Elon."

Musk had already voiced support for the AfD last year, when he attacked the German government's handling of illegal migration.

Last month, Musk called for the sacking of Italian judges who had questioned the legality of government measures to prevent irregular immigration.

And this week Nigel Farage, leader of Britain's right-wing Reform UK party and friend of Trump, posted a photo of himself and Reform's treasurer meeting Musk at Trump's Florida residence, and said he was in talks with Musk about financial support.



Title: Top US officials in Damascus to meet new Syrian rulers, State Department says

The delegation also seeks information on a US journalist, missing since 2012

Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani speaks to a crowd at Ummayad Mosque in Damascus, after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad, Syria Dec 8, 2024. REUTERS/Mahmoud Hassano//File Photo

Top US diplomats were expected to hold Washington's first in-person official meetings with Syria's new de facto rulers led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Damascus on Friday, hoping to gauge what plans the former al Qaeda affiliate has for the country.

The United States, other Western powers and many Syrians were glad to see militias led by HTS topple President Bashar al-Assad, but it is not clear whether the group will impose strict Islamic rule or show flexibility and move towards democracy.

The US officials from the Biden administration will discuss with HTS representatives a set of principles such as inclusivity and respect for the rights of minorities that Washington wants included in Syria's political transition, a State Department spokesperson said.

The State Department's top Middle East diplomat Barbara Leaf, Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and Senior Advisor Daniel Rubinstein, who is tasked with leading the Department's Syria engagement, are the first US diplomats to travel to Damascus since Assad's rule collapsed.

Western governments are gradually opening channels to HTS and its leader Ahmed al-Sharaa, a former commander of an al Qaeda franchise in Syria, and starting to debate whether to remove the group's terrorist designation. The US delegation's trip follows contacts with France and Britain in recent days.

The delegation will also seek information about US journalist Austin Tice, who was taken captive during a reporting trip to Syria in August 2012, and other American citizens who went missing under Assad.

"They will be engaging directly with the Syrian people, including members of civil society, activists, members of different communities, and other Syrian voices about their vision for the future of their country and how the United States can help support them," the State Department spokesperson said.

"They also plan to meet with representatives of HTS to discuss transition principles endorsed by the United States and regional partners in Aqaba, Jordan."

The US cut diplomatic ties with Syria and shut its embassy in the capital Damascus in 2012.

SYRIANS GATHER

Several hundred Syrians gathered in Damascus' central Ummayad Square on Thursday to call for a democratic, secular state that ensures equal rights for women. It was the first such demonstration since Assad's ouster.

There is widespread apprehension among Syrians that the new administration will gravitate towards hardline religious rule, marginalising minority communities and excluding women from public life.

Obaida Arnout, a spokesperson for the Syrian transitional government, said this week that women's "biological and physiological nature" rendered them unfit for certain governmental jobs.

The UN human rights office will send a small team of human rights officers to Syria next week for the first time in years following the overthrow of Assad, UN spokesperson Thameen Al-Kheetan told a press briefing in Geneva.

As part of the takeover, rebels have flung open prisons and government offices, raising fresh hopes for accountability for crimes committed during Syria's civil war.

Syrian rebels seized control of Damascus on Dec 8, forcing Assad to flee after more than 13 years of civil war and ending his family's decades-long rule.

The rebel sweep ended a war that killed hundreds of thousands, caused one of the biggest refugee crises of modern times and left cities bombed to rubble, countryside depopulated and the economy hollowed out by global sanctions.

The lightning offensive raised questions over whether the rebels will be able to ensure an orderly transition.

Forces under the command of al-Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - replaced the Assad family rule with a three-month caretaker government that had been ruling a rebel enclave in Syria's northwestern province of Idlib.

Washington designated al-Sharaa a terrorist in 2013, saying al Qaeda in Iraq had tasked him with overthrowing Assad's rule and establishing Islamic sharia law in Syria. It said the Nusra Front, the predecessor of HTS, carried out suicide attacks that killed civilians and espoused a violent sectarian vision.

Golani said the terrorist designation was unfair and that he opposed the killing of innocent people.

Washington remains concerned that ISIS could seize the moment to resurrect and also wants to avoid any clashes in the country's northeast between Turkey-backed rebel factions and US-allied Kurdish militia.



Title: Georgia to award medals to officials sanctioned by West for protest crackdown

11 officials are set to receive one of Georgia's highest civilian medals

Georgia's Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze leaves after a briefing amid the political crisis, triggered by the government's decision to suspend talks on joining the European Union, in Tbilisi, Georgia Dec 3, 2024. REUTERS/Irakli Gedenidze

Five Georgian interior ministry officials who were sanctioned by the West for their role in a violent crackdown on pro-EU protesters will be presented with one of the country's highest honours, Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze said on Friday.

Georgians have been protesting daily for three weeks since the government announced it was halting talks on joining the European Union - a longstanding and widely popular national goal - until 2028.

The officials to be decorated include Interior Minister Vakhtang Gomelauri and heads of the ministry's Special Tasks Department, which is accused of orchestrating beatings of opposition politicians and journalists, who were sanctioned by the US and UK on Thursday.

Gomelauri, a former bodyguard to Bidzina Ivanishvili, a billionaire ex-prime minister widely seen as Georgia's paramount leader, was also promoted on Friday to deputy prime minister.

Police have used water cannon and tear gas against the crowds. Georgia's government has accused the demonstrators of trying to stage a revolution and says more than 150 police officers have been injured in clashes with protesters who have thrown fireworks at them.

Georgia had been seen as among the most democratic and pro-Western of the Soviet Union's successor states, but critics accuse it of moving in an increasingly authoritarian and pro-Russian direction in the past several years.

Kobakhidze told reporters the government would compensate any officials who suffered financial losses as a result of the "unjust decision" to impose Western sanctions.

He said the officials were being rewarded for "the honourable actions carried out by the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs." A total of 11 senior officials would be nominated for the Order of Honour, one of Georgia's highest civilian medals.



