Category: https://bdnews24.com/world

Title: Israel keeps up Gaza bombardment as ceasefire talks intensify

Airstrikes have killed 13 near Gaza City and Beit Lahiya

Palestinians inspect the site of an Israeli airstrike on a house, amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas, in Gaza City, Dec 19, 2024. REUTERS/Dawoud Abu Alkas

US and Arab mediators are working round-the-clock to hammer out a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas, sources close to the talks said, while in the Gaza Strip medics said Israeli strikes had killed 41 Palestinians on Thursday.

The mediators, at talks in Egypt and Qatar, are trying to forge a deal to pause the 14-month-old war in the Hamas-ruled enclave that would include a release of hostages seized from Israel on Oct 7, 2023, along with Palestinian prisoners held by Israel.

Mediators had managed to narrow some gaps on previous sticking points but differences remained, the sources said.

In Gaza, medics said at least 13 Palestinians were killed overnight in separate Israeli airstrikes, including on two houses in Gaza City and a central camp.

Medics said an Israeli airstrike killed nine people near Beach refugee camp in Gaza City, while another killed four others at a housing project near Beit Lahiya in the north.

Later on Thursday, airstrikes killed at least 15 Palestinians in two shelters housing displaced families in eastern Gaza City's suburb of Tuffah, medics said, bringing Thursday's death toll to 41. There was no Israeli military comment.

Residents of Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip, where the army has operated since October, said forces blew up clusters of houses overnight.

"The longer those talks last, the more destruction and death takes place in Gaza. Jabalia, Beit Hanoun, and Beit Lahiya are being wiped out, Rafah too," said Adel, 60, a resident of Jabalia, who is now displaced in Gaza City.

A report published by Medecins San Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) on Thursday said there were clear signs of ethnic cleansing in Israel's offensive as Palestinians were forcibly displaced and bombed.

"The signs of ethnic cleansing and the ongoing devastation —including mass killings, severe physical and mental health injuries, forced displacement, and impossible conditions of life for Palestinians under siege and bombardment — are undeniable," the aid group's head Christopher Lockyear said in the report.

"Palestinians have been killed in their homes and in hospital beds...People cannot find even the most basic necessities like food, clean water, medicines, and soap amid a punishing siege and blockade," MSF said.

There was no immediate Israeli comment on the MSF report but Israel has previously denied carrying out ethnic cleansing and says its campaign aims to wipe out Hamas and prevent it from regrouping.

Israel accuses the militant group of exploiting civilian infrastructure and the population as a human shield. Hamas denies this.

PHASED OR COMPREHENSIVE?

Sources close to the mediation efforts said Hamas had pushed for a one-package deal but Israel wanted a phased one. Talks are focused on a first-phase release of hostages, dead or alive, as well as a number of Palestinians jailed by Israel.

On Tuesday, the sides discussed the numbers and categories of those to be released, but things have yet to be finalised, said a source who spoke anonymously because of the sensitivity of the talks.

The source said one issue was Israel's demand to retain the right to act against any possible military threat from Gaza and the stationing of Israeli forces during phases of the deal.

Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said on Tuesday Israel will have security control over Gaza with full freedom of action after defeating Hamas.

Israel started its air and ground assault on Gaza after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities in October 2023, killing 1,200 people and taking over 250 hostages back to Gaza, according to Israeli tallies.

Israel says about 100 hostages are still being held, but it is unclear how many are alive.

Israel's campaign has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians, displaced most of the 2.3 million population and reduced much of the coastal enclave to ruins.

On Thursday, Human Rights Watch said Israel had killed thousands of Palestinians in Gaza by denying them clean water which it says legally amounts to acts of genocide and extermination.

Israel's foreign ministry accused the rights group of lying, saying Israel had facilitated the continuous flow of water and humanitarian aid into Gaza since the start of the war despite constant attacks by Hamas.



Title: Putin denies Russian defeat in Syria, says Israel is the main winner

He plays down the damage to Moscow from the fall of Assad, saying its military intervention in Syria since 2015 has helped prevent the country

Russia's President Vladimir Putin attends his annual end-of-year press conference and phone-in, in Moscow, Russia Dec 19, 2024. REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov

Russian President Vladimir Putin denied on Thursday that Russia's nine-year intervention in Syria had been a failure, but expressed concern about Israel's military operations there since the toppling of his ally Bashar al-Assad.

Putin, addressing multiple questions on Syria at a marathon annual news conference, said Moscow had made proposals to the new rulers in Damascus to maintain Russia's air and naval bases in the country.

In his first public comments on the subject, he said he had not yet met Assad since the former president fled to Moscow earlier this month, but that he planned to do so.

Putin played down the damage to Moscow from the fall of Assad, saying its military intervention in Syria since 2015 had helped prevent the country from becoming a "terrorist enclave".

He said Israel was the "main beneficiary" of the current situation.

Soon after Assad's fall, Israel moved troops into the buffer zone on the Syrian side of the dividing line with the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights and conducted hundreds of air strikes to destroy Syrian army weapons and equipment.

"Russia condemns the seizure of any Syrian territories. This is obvious," Putin said, saying Israel had penetrated to a depth of 25 km (16 miles) and got as far as fortifications that were built for Syria by the former Soviet Union.

Putin said Russia hoped that Israel would at some point leave Syrian territory, but "I have the impression that not only are they not going to leave, but they are going to reinforce there".

He said Turkey was also intervening in pursuit of its own security interests with regard to Kurdish fighters in Syria whom Ankara regards as terrorists.

"We all understand this. There will be many problems. But we are on the side of international law and for the sovereignty of all countries, while respecting their territorial integrity, meaning Syria," Putin said.

He said most people in Syria with whom Russia had been in contact about the future of its two main military bases in Syria were supportive of them staying, but that talks were ongoing.

Russia had proposed using its Hmeimim air base to deliver humanitarian aid, and had also evacuated 4,000 Iranian fighters from Syria via that route, he said.

In response to a question on the subject from a US journalist, Putin said he would ask Assad about the fate of US reporter Austin Tice, who is missing in Syria, and was ready to ask Syria's new rulers about Tice's whereabouts too.



Title: Who are the immigrants who could be targeted in Trump's mass deportation plans?

At least 11 million immigrants in 2022 lacked legal status or had temporary protections in the US

Immigration activists march in solidarity with migrants and against deportations in Los Angeles, California, US, December 18, 2024. REUTERS

President-elect Donald Trump plans to launch a mass deportation operation targeting millions of immigrants living in the US illegally and with temporary protections once he takes office on Jan. 20, a challenging initiative that could split apart families and affect US businesses.

There were roughly 11 million immigrants in the US illegally or with a temporary status at the start of 2022, a figure that some analysts say has increased to 13-14 million. Those with temporary protections are not immediately deportable and many live in “sanctuary” states that limit cooperation with federal immigration enforcement.

WHERE DO IMMIGRANTS WITHOUT LEGAL STATUS LIVE?

California was the state with the most immigrants in the US illegally with some 2.2 million in 2022, according to estimates by the Center for Migration Studies of New York, a nonpartisan think tank.

Texas was close behind with 1.8 million, followed by Florida (936,000), New York (672,000). New Jersey (495,000) and Illinois (429,000).

California, New York, New Jersey and Illinois - all Democratic strongholds - are among 11 states with “sanctuary” laws or policies that limit cooperation with federal immigration enforcement, according to the Immigrant Legal Resource Center.

Some 44% of immigrants in the US illegally lived in sanctuary states in 2022, according to the center’s estimate. That figure does not include those in sanctuary cities and counties in places without a state-wide law, such as New Mexico.

Most of the immigrants taken into custody by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) are caught illegally crossing the border or are referred from state and local prisons and jails.

Law enforcement in sanctuary states typically refuse to alert ICE when they detain or release an immigrant eligible for deportation.

WHERE DO IMMIGRANTS WITHOUT LEGAL STATUS COME FROM?

Nearly half of the immigrants in the US illegally in 2022 came from Mexico, amounting to 4.8 million of 11 million overall, according to a US Department of Homeland Security report.

Other top countries were Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras.

Since January 2022, some 2 million immigrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua and Venezuela were either caught crossing illegally or allowed to enter via Biden-era humanitarian programmes, according to DHS statistics.

Trump intends to end the Biden entry programs, including one for migrants with US sponsors and another that allows migrants in Mexico to use an app to enter through a legal border crossing.

WHERE DO IMMIGRANTS IN THE US ILLEGALLY WORK?

The vast majority of the immigrants in the US illegally in 2022 were prime working age, according to the DHS report. About 8.7 million of the 11 million were ages 18-54.

Farm groups have urged Trump to spare their workers from his promised mass deportations, arguing their removal would upend the US food supply chain.

Think tanks and the US government have varying estimates for the number of agricultural workers that live in the US illegally. The Center for Migration Studies of New York found the total number to be 283,000 in 2022, with about half in California. US government estimates suggest the nationwide total could be closer to 1 million.

HOW MANY AMERICANS LIVE IN ‘MIXED-STATUS HOUSEHOLDS’?

The immigration advocacy group FWD.us projected there could be as many as 14.5 million immigrants without legal status or with temporary protections by January 2025, up from the 11 million in 2022.

Of those, 10.1 million live with a US citizen or permanent resident, what’s known as a “mixed-status household.”

The figure suggests that a large-scale deportation initiative would likely split up families and could affect millions of US citizens and permanent residents.

At least 5.1 million US citizen children live with an immigrant parent who lacks legal status, according to a FWD.us analysis of government data.

Those families could face the prospect of relocating to another country together or be separated.

HOW LONG HAVE IMMIGRANTS WHO LACK LEGAL STATUS LIVED IN THE US?

Some 54% of immigrants in the US illegally had lived in the country for more than 10 years as of 2022, according to the report by Center for Migration Studies of New York.

About 25% had been in the country for less than five years.

HOW MANY IMMIGRANTS IN THE US NOW LACK LEGAL STATUS?

DHS, the Center for Migration Studies of New York and other think tanks have used US Census data and other figures to estimate that there were about 11 million immigrants in the US in 2022 who either lacked legal immigration status or had temporary humanitarian protections.

DHS enforcement and entry statistics suggest that at least 5 million more immigrants entered the US without legal status or with a temporary humanitarian status since then.

However, some of those immigrants have since been deported, voluntarily left, obtained legal status or died over the same period. An up-to-date estimate that factors in all of these outcomes is not available.

ARE PEOPLE WITH TEMPORARY PROTECTIONS COUNTED IN THESE ESTIMATES?

Yes, the estimates of immigrants in the US illegally typically include people who have temporary humanitarian protections, meaning they would not be immediately deportable.

The protections include 1.1 million people covered by Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as of Sept 30. TPS grants deportation relief and access to work permits to people already in the US if their home countries are deemed unsafe due to armed conflict, natural disasters, or other extraordinary circumstances.

The designations last six- to 18-months but can be renewed indefinitely. Trump sought to end most TPS enrollment during his 2017-2021 presidency but was blocked by federal courts.

He is expected to try to end most TPS enrollment as the protections expire, but the process would face litigation.

Thousands more have a similar status known as Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) that Trump could also try to roll back.

Another 535,000 people have deportation relief and work permits through the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programme for “Dreamer” immigrants brought to the US illegally as children.

Trump tried to end the DACA programme during his first term but was rebuffed by the Supreme Court.

Trump is expected to again try to end DACA although he said in a recent interview that he would be open to a deal to protect “Dreamers.”

The state of Texas is currently leading a lawsuit against the program that could make its way back to the Supreme Court during Trump’s presidency.



Title: Britain pledges new $286 million defence package for Ukraine

Ukraine has urged allies to bolster it both on the battlefield and diplomatically before any potential talks with Russia

UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer meets military personnel onboard HMS Iron Duke on Dec 17, 2024 in Tallinn, Estonia. Leon Neal/Pool via REUTERS

Britain on Thursday said it would send an additional 225 million pounds ($286 million) of military equipment to Ukraine to help it in the war against Russia.

WHY IT’S IMPORTANT

Ukraine has urged allies to bolster it both on the battlefield and diplomatically before any potential talks with Russia. As the war approaches its third year, Ukrainian troops are weary and outnumbered along a 1,170-km (727-mile) frontline.

BY THE NUMBERS

The package comprised of:

- 92 million pounds for equipment to bolster Ukraine’s navy, including small boats, reconnaissance drones, uncrewed surface vessels, loitering munitions and mine countermeasure drones.

- 68 million pounds for air defence equipment including radars, decoy land equipment and counter-drone electronic warfare systems.

- 26 million pounds to provide support and spare parts for systems previously delivered to Ukraine.

- 39 million pounds to provide more than 1,000 counter-drone electronic warfare systems and for joint procurement of respirators and equipment to enhance the protective capabilities of Ukraine’s Armed Forces.

Britain also said it would offer more military training to Ukraine.

KEY QUOTE

"The brave people of Ukraine continue to defy all expectations with their unbreakable spirit," British defence minister John Healey said in a statement. "But they cannot go it alone – which is why the UK will step up our international leadership on Ukraine throughout 2025.



Title: Trump rejects bipartisan US spending bill, raising government shutdown risk

Trump instead urged Congress to pass legislation that would tie up loose ends before he takes office next month by raising the government's borrowing authority

FILE PHOTO: US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS/Brian Snyder/File Photo

President-elect Donald Trump Wednesday disrupted bipartisan efforts to avert a government shutdown as he pressured his fellow Republicans in Congress to reject a stopgap bill to keep the government funded past the end of the week.

Trump instead urged Congress to pass legislation that would tie up loose ends before he takes office next month by raising the government's borrowing authority -- a politically difficult task -- and extending government funding. He also said lawmakers should strip out elements backed by Democrats, whose support would be necessary for passage.

Trump's attempt to influence Congress more than a month before he takes office could complicate efforts to avert a shutdown that would disrupt everything from air travel to law enforcement in the days leading up to the Dec 25 Christmas holiday.

He warned that Republicans who vote for the current legislative package could have trouble getting re-elected.

"Any Republican that would be so stupid as to do this should, and will, be Primaried," Trump wrote on social media.

It would be the first government shutdown since one that extended through December 2018 into 2019, during Trump's first four-year White House term.

Democrats currently hold a majority in the Senate, and Democratic President Joe Biden remains in power until Trump takes office on Jan 20.

The current bill would fund government agencies at current levels and provide $100 billion for disaster relief and $10 billion in farm aid. It also includes a wide range of unrelated provisions, such as a pay raise for lawmakers and a crackdown on hidden hotel fees.

Trump said Congress should limit the bill to temporary spending and disaster relief and also raise the national debt ceiling now before it comes to a head next year.

"Unless the Democrats terminate or substantially extend the Debt Ceiling now, I will fight 'till the end," Trump said on his Truth Social site.

Congress's next steps were unclear. Bipartisan agreement will be needed to pass any spending bill through the House of Representatives, where Republicans currently have a 219-211 majority, and the Senate.

The stopgap measure is needed because Congress has failed to pass regular spending legislation for the fiscal year that began on Oct 1. It does not cover benefit programs like Social Security, which continue automatically.

The US government has spent more money than it has taken in for more than 20 years, as Democrats have expanded health programs and Republicans have cut taxes. An aging population is projected to push up the cost of retirement and health programs in the years to come.

Steadily mounting debt - currently $36 trillion - will force lawmakers to raise the debt ceiling at some point, either now or when borrowing authority runs out next year. Failure to act could shock bond markets with potentially severe economic consequences.

MUSK WADES IN

Trump's comments came after his ally Elon Musk pressured Congress to reject the bill and said those who back it should be voted out of office.

The Tesla chief executive and world's richest person, who spent more than $250 million to help Trump get elected, has been tasked by Trump to prune the federal budget.

Unless Congress acts, the federal government will run out of money to fund operations on Saturday. The deal reached on Tuesday would have extended funding through Mar 14.

House Republicans huddled in the office of Speaker Mike Johnson late Wednesday to determine their next move. Even before Trump and Musk weighed in, some on the party's right flank had come out against the bill on the grounds that it spent too much money and included too many unrelated provisions.

"The Speaker tried to get the votes and the necessary votes weren't there. And then we saw what happened on social media, and a lot of folks have, you know, had second thoughts. And so now we got to recalibrate,” Representative Kevin Hern told reporters outside Johnson's office.

Republican Representative Mike Rogers said changes to the debt ceiling should not be included in the current negotiations.

"It's complicated enough without that," he told reporters. Democrats said Republicans had walked away from a bipartisan deal.

"House Republicans have been ordered to shut down the government and hurt everyday Americans all across this country," House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries said at a news conference. "House Republicans will now own any harm that is visited upon the American people that results from a government shutdown.”

Trump in the past has sometimes voiced support for government shutdowns, and the 2018-2019 one was the longest in US history, lasting 34 days.

Musk has emerged as one of the biggest spenders in US politics this year, and his threat could resonate with some Republicans. It likely carries less weight with Democrats who represent solidly liberal areas, or senators from both parties who will not be up for re-election for another six years. Musk tried and failed in November to influence the outcome of the Senate Republicans' leadership contest.

A wide range of government services would be disrupted if Congress does not act before Saturday, including agencies like the Pentagon and NASA that do business with Musk's companies.



Title: Zelensky presses for EU-US unity to stop Putin

EU diplomats have said the leaders aim to send a clear signal to Trump about their continued support for Ukraine

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky looks on as he attends a European Union leaders summit in Brussels, Belgium, Dec 19, 2024. REUTERS/Johanna Geron

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged Donald Trump on Thursday to ally with Europe to stop Russia and save his country amid fears the NATO sceptic US President-elect could deal a setback to Kyiv by cutting American support for its war effort.

"We need very much unity between the United States and EU and countries of Europe," Zelensky said before addressing European Union leaders at the start of an EU summit dominated by the Ukraine war that Trump has vowed to end.

"We need this unity to achieve peace. I think only together the United States and Europe can really stop Putin and save Ukraine," Zelensky continued, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

EU diplomats have said the leaders aim to send a clear signal to Trump about their continued support for Ukraine and will stress that any peace settlement must involve Ukraine and respect its territorial integrity.

Antonio Costa, chairing his first EU summit as the new European Council president, said the EU would work for a just and lasting peace.

"This war is not only about Ukraine, is not only about Europe, (it) is about the international law. The international law must prevail and the invasion must be defeated," he told reporters beside Zelensky.

EU leaders are due to reaffirm their "unwavering commitment" to supporting Ukraine "for as long as it takes", according to draft summit conclusions.

Trump has repeatedly called for a swift end to the nearly three-year-old war. On Monday he said Zelensky should be ready to reach a peace deal with Russian President Vladimir Putin, though he did not say whether this meant Kyiv ceding territory to Moscow as part of a negotiated settlement.

Russian forces currently occupy nearly a fifth of Ukrainian territory and are making steady advances in the east of the country.

EU draft conclusions for the summit say that "Russia must not prevail", adding that no initiative must be taken on Ukraine without Kyiv's involvement.

Zelensky's attendance at the EU summit follows talks with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte and other European leaders on Wednesday, aiming to get immediate help to bolster Kyiv's war effort and discuss longer-term security guarantees.

While European leaders insist they are focusing on Ukraine's immediate needs, some officials have begun discussing how to assure the country's security after the war comes to a halt.

The EU leaders will also discuss wider EU-US relations over lunch amid concerns of a possible transatlantic trade war.

Trump has said the EU will "pay a big price" with tariffs for not buying enough US exports. He has already pledged hefty tariffs on three of the United States' largest trading partners - Canada, Mexico and China. The EU knows it will not be spared.

UNITY

Some EU diplomats said the key for the bloc would be unity and avoidance of Washington conducting discussions or deals with single EU members - a copy of its largely successful unified strategy for dealing with Britain during Brexit negotiations.

"The US might try individual negotiations but so far I have not seen countries falling for that," one EU diplomat said.

The EU will seek to point out that it is the United States' second-biggest trading partner and a close ally with shared values. However, mindful that Trump is preoccupied by the US goods trade deficit, EU officials have mooted potentially offering to buy more US LNG or arms.

The lunchtime "EU in the world" debate is also likely to include China and whether the bloc will be forced to take sides in a US-China trade conflict as well as Britain, which has said it wants to reset ties with the European Union and is seen by the bloc as a crucial security ally.



Title: Putin blames YouTube for slowing speeds in Russia

He blames YouTube for its slowing download speeds in the country

Russia's President Vladimir Putin speaks during his annual end-of-year press conference and phone-in, in Moscow, Russia Dec 19, 2024. REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday blamed Alphabet's GOOGL.O YouTube for slowing speeds on the video hosting platform in Russia and said Google must comply with Russian law if it wants to continue operating in Russia.

Critics believe YouTube is being deliberately disrupted by the authorities to prevent Russians from viewing content there that is critical of Putin and his government.

Russia denies that, saying the issues are caused by Google's failure to upgrade equipment - a charge disputed by the company and technology experts.

Russian internet monitoring services have reported mass outages of the online video hosting service in the last few months, but communications regulator Roskomnadzor denies blocking YouTube traffic.



Title: At UN, brother of Hamas hostage urges action against terror

Michel Levy is first member of a hostage family to brief UN Security Council

Security agents walk with sniffer dogs as they check the United Nations Security Council hall before a meeting to discuss the Israel-Hamas conflict in Gaza, at the UN headquarters in New York City, US, August 13, 2024. REUTERS

The brother of an Israeli man held hostage in the Gaza Strip by Palestinian militants Hamas criticised the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday for inaction and urged it to "send a resonating message that terror will never prevail."

Michael Levy's brother Or was taken hostage and Or's wife was killed when Hamas attacked Israel on Oct 7, 2023. Levy was the first person from a hostage family to brief the 15-member Security Council, which has met dozens of times on the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza over the past 14 months.

"Your silence is deafening, your inaction is suffocating. For everyday this council fails to act, the message to the world is clear - that some lives are worth saving and others are not," he said. "I refuse to accept a world where my brother's life can be used as a bargaining chip and be forgotten."

The Security Council has repeatedly demanded - in four resolutions - the immediate and unconditional release of hostages held by Hamas and other groups. But it has not condemned the militant group's attack on Oct 7, 2023.

Israel's ally the United States vetoed a draft council resolution in October 2023 that would have condemned Hamas and urged Gaza aid access. The US had argued it needed more time to broker humanitarian access and was disappointed the text did not mention Israel's right to self-defence.

Levy's remarks came as the United States, Egypt and Qatar sought on Wednesday to conclude a deal between Israel and Hamas to halt the war in Gaza. On Tuesday, sources close to the talks in Cairo said an agreement could be signed in coming days.

"We hope we can achieve a deal," Israel's UN Ambassador Danny Danon told reporters ahead of the Security Council meeting on Wednesday. "After many rejections by Hamas, we hope we will have some news before the holiday of Hanukkah and Christmas."

"I want to say those mediators who are doing a lot trying to make it happen, but there is no guarantees," he said.

The war in Gaza began after Hamas killed around 1,200 people in Israel on Oct 7, 2023, and took about 250 hostages, according to Israeli tallies. Israel says about 100 hostages are still held, but it is not clear how many of those people are alive.

Since then, Israel's military has leveled swaths of Gaza, driving nearly all of its 2.3 million people from their homes, giving rise to deadly hunger and disease and killing more than 45,000 people, according to Palestinian health authorities, who do not distinguish between combatants and noncombatants.

"Gaza has turned into a graveyard for the living," Algeria's UN Ambassador Amar Bendjama told the council on Wednesday.



Title: Zelensky, NATO boss and European leaders discuss Ukraine security guarantees

European leaders discuss Ukraine's security post-war, including troop deployment

NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte stands next to President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky at the NATO Secretary General Residence, in Brussels, Belgium, December 18, 2024.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky held talks with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte and other European leaders on Wednesday, aiming to get immediate help to bolster Kyiv's war effort and discuss longer-term security guarantees.

Zelensky told reporters that Wednesday's talks in Brussels, and a discussion with the European Union's 27 national leaders the following day, were "a very good opportunity to speak about security guarantees for Ukraine for today and for tomorrow".

While European leaders insist they are focusing on Ukraine's immediate needs, some officials have begun discussing how to assure the country's security after the war comes to a halt, including the possibility of deploying European troops.

Posting later on X, Zelensky said he and Rutte had an "important and very substantive meeting" focusing on "strengthening air defense for Ukraine and ensuring the reliability of the peace we are collectively working to achieve".

NATO "will do everything to ensure that Ukraine is as strong as possible when we turn to more active diplomacy," he said.

Wednesday's talks took place with Ukraine on the defensive on the battlefield and uncertainty hanging over future US support, as President-elect Donald Trump pushes for a quick end to the war and has called for an immediate ceasefire.

Rutte said the talks would focus on ensuring Ukraine is "in the best possible position" whenever it decides to enter peace talks by providing more air defence systems and other weapons to boost Kyiv's fight against Russia's invasion.

Rutte and Zelensky were later joined by a group of other European leaders.

NATO did not say who would attend those talks. But diplomats said they would include German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni, Polish President Andrzej Duda, the French and British foreign ministers and top EU officials Ursula von der Leyen and Antonio Costa.

DEPLOYING EUROPEAN TROOPS

Earlier, Zelensky met French President Emmanuel Macron, who has pushed the discussion on European troops for Ukraine.

"We share a common vision: reliable guarantees are essential for a peace that can truly be achieved," Zelensky posted on X after the meeting.

"We continued working on President Macron’s initiative regarding the presence of forces in Ukraine that could contribute to stabilising the path to peace."

Asked how Britain would respond if Zelensky asked for British troops to be sent to Ukraine, British foreign minister David Lammy told Sky News he saw no sign Russian President Vladimir Putin was ready to negotiate.

"The discussion is about equipping Ukraine for the days ahead. That is why we meet at this very sombre moment to ensure that Ukraine gets through the winter and gets into 2025," he said.

"I know there's lots of speculation, but the truth is Putin is not a man that you can negotiate with when he is causing such mayhem on European soil at this moment in time," he added. "It is strength that Vladimir Putin will respond to."



Title: US alarmed Russia close to accepting nuclear-armed North Korea

North Korea's UN envoy says nuclear war in Northeast Asia is a matter of time

US Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield, speaks during a United Nations Security Council meeting on the situation in Gaza, at UN headquarters in New York City, US, October 16, 2024. REUTERS

The United States voiced alarm at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday that Russia was close to accepting a nuclear-armed North Korea, as Moscow and Pyongyang defended their growing cooperation.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in September that Moscow viewed the notion of "denuclearising" North Korea as a closed issue, as it understood Pyongyang's logic of relying on nuclear weapons as the foundation of its defence.

"Alarmingly, we assess that Russia may be close to accepting North Korea's nuclear-weapons program, reversing Moscow's decades-long commitment to denuclearise the Korean Peninsula," said US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield.

"We believe that Moscow will become more reluctant not only to criticise Pyongyang's development of nuclear weapons, but also further obstruct passage of sanctions or resolutions condemning North Korea's destabilising behaviour," she said.

South Korea and Britain both criticized Lavrov's remarks, saying he had undermined the global non-proliferation regime. Britain's Deputy UN Ambassador James Kariuki described Lavrov's comment as a "reckless departure from the agreed principle of complete, verifiable and irreversible disarmament."

Russia's UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia did not reference North Korea's nuclear program when he addressed the council. He defended the growing cooperation between Moscow and Pyongyang as Russia's sovereign right.

"Russian cooperation with the DPRK ... is in accordance with international law, not in violation thereof," he said, using the acronym for North Korea's official name. "This is not directed against any third countries. It does not pose any threat to states in the region or the international community, and have no doubt we will continue to develop such cooperation."

Russia has forged closer diplomatic and military ties with North Korea since invading Ukraine in February 2022 and Russian President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un have visited each other's countries.

Russia is using North Korean troops to battle Ukrainian forces holding an enclave in Russia's Kursk region.

North Korea's UN Ambassador Kim Song described the closer ties with Russia as a "positive contribution to international peace and security." Citing what Pyongyang sees as a US-led nuclear-based military bloc in the region, he also said: "Outbreak of the nuclear war in Northeast Asia is no longer a possibility, but a matter of time."

South Korea's UN Ambassador Joonkook Hwang warned the Security Council to "expect further uncertainties looming over the horizon" ahead of US President-elect Donald Trump taking office for a second term next month.

"North Korea has a history of provocative actions during US presidential transitions, designed to grab attention, raise the stakes and set the stage for direct negotiations with the new US administration," Hwang said.

"This pattern can recur within the upcoming months. This time it could be another ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missile) or military satellite launch or even its seventh nuclear test," he said.

North Korea has been under UN Security Council sanctions since 2006, and the measures have been steadily strengthened over the years with the aim of halting Pyongyang's development of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.



Title: Trump says he wants retribution. Some critics fear he will use the IRS to get it

Although the US tax collection agency claims audits are non-partisan and unbiased, previous US presidents have used IRS audits for political retribution

President-elect Donald Trump attends a campaign event, in Allentown, Pennsylvania, US, October 29, 2024. REUTERS

Some prominent critics of President-elect Donald Trump - including three officials in his first administration - are instructing their accountants to safeguard against the possibility of Trump ordering investigations into their tax records after he returns to the White House, according to interviews with Reuters.

Several American administrations in the 20th century misused the Internal Revenue Service, the US tax collection agency, to target opponents by ordering audits of their tax filings, historians say.

Six Trump critics, including two national security officials and one CIA officer in his first administration, told Reuters they fear a malicious IRS audit. Five are taking protective measures in response to the former president's vows to seek retribution against perceived enemies. "We are going through our finances with a fine-tooth comb," one of the former national security officials told Reuters.

On the campaign trail Trump repeatedly called for the prosecution of perceived enemies, including Democratic President Joe Biden and his family, prosecutors who brought criminal cases against him while he was out of power, and former intelligence officials who investigated alleged ties between his 2016 election campaign and Russia.

This week Trump filed a lawsuit against the Des Moines Register newspaper and its former top pollster, alleging interference in the Nov 5 election.

While Trump has not spoken publicly about using the IRS as an instrument of revenge, Mark Zaid, a whistleblower attorney representing two of the Trump critics who spoke to Reuters, said many such clients fear that they could be targeted by the IRS with groundless audits. Even if no issue is found with their taxes, he said, an audit would force them to spend money on legal and accounting fees and stress them emotionally.

A Trump spokesman referred Reuters to an interview that aired on NBC's "Meet the Press" on Dec 8.

'THEY WENT AFTER ME'

Asked if he wants to see investigations of his political enemies, Trump told the interviewer: "No, I don't think so." He then added: "If they were crooked, if they did something wrong, if they have broken the law, probably. They went after me. You know, they went after me and I did nothing wrong."

Since he won the election, Trump has been less vocal about going after his enemies. He has not named any of the individuals who spoke to Reuters.

The critics Reuters interviewed spoke on the condition of anonymity. They fear that talking publicly will make them more likely to be targeted.

Another of the former national security officials told Reuters they have directed their accountant that there can be no "gray areas" in their tax returns and they must be audit-proof.

A Republican strategist said he and his accountant are in negotiations with the IRS over more than $100,000 in back taxes. "We are hoping to settle with the IRS before Trump takes office," the strategist told Reuters.

Fifteen other prominent Trump critics did not respond to interview requests or declined to be interviewed.

They include two senior officials in Democratic President Barack Obama's administration, former CIA director John Brennan and former director of national intelligence James Clapper, and former Republican congresswoman Liz Cheney.

Brennan headed the CIA during an intelligence community investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election that concluded in a January 2017 report that the effort was aimed at swaying the vote to Trump.

A 2018 bipartisan Senate intelligence committee report and Special Counsel Robert Mueller in 2019 reached similar conclusions and found contacts between Trump campaign aides and Russian officials. Both probes, however, found that the campaign did not conspire in Moscow's interference operations.

Last year, Trump reposted on his Truth Social platform a fabricated image of Brennan, Clapper and others behind bars with a caption suggesting they be tried for treason.

Cheney was vice-chair of the congressional committee that investigated the Jan 6, 2021 attack on the US Capitol by Trump supporters and voted to impeach the former president. During the election, she campaigned for his opponent, Vice President Kamala Harris.

In a post on his Truth Social site on Wednesday, Trump said the FBI should investigate Cheney for her role in the Jan 6 investigation. "Liz Cheney could be in a lot of trouble."

A spokesperson for Cheney did not respond to requests for comment.

COMPLEX TAX SYSTEMS

The US has one of the most complex tax systems in the world. But, in general, tax audits are rare. For all returns filed for tax years 2013 through 2021, the most recent long-term data available, the IRS audited just 0.44% of individual returns.

An audit typically requires a taxpayer to produce receipts, bank statements or other documents and can involve costly accountants' fees. A major audit can last months and even years with the possibility of a fine. In extremely rare cases - less than 400 in 2023 - people can be jailed for willful criminal tax evasion.

The IRS said in a statement to Reuters that they operated without political bias.

"Audits and collections are handled by career, non-partisan civil servants, and the IRS has safeguards in place to protect the exam and collection process," the IRS said.

Three of those who told Reuters they were worried about the prospect of heightened IRS scrutiny of their finances cited the cases of former FBI director James Comey and his deputy Andrew McCabe, who were selected for the most intrusive type of examination, called a National Research Program audit.

"Would I be surprised if I got an IRS audit? No." said the former CIA official.

The FBI leaders infuriated Trump during his first term over their handling of the Russia investigation. In his first term Trump repeatedly called both men corrupt and said they should be investigated. In June 2024, Trump reposted a warning by his former White House advisor Steve Bannon that McCabe should be worried about being targeted if Trump wins reelection.

Comey was subjected to an IRS audit in 2019, when Trump was still in office. McCabe was audited in 2021, after Trump left office, but when the IRS was still under the leadership of Trump's choice to head the agency, according to The New York Times.

The audits concluded that the IRS owed Comey and his wife $347, according to The New York Times. McCabe and his wife owed a small amount, which they paid, The Times reported.

A 2022 IRS inspector general's report cleared the IRS of wrongdoing in the Comey and McCabe audits. The IRS is barred by law from discussing individual audits.

NIXON AND THE IRS

Several previous US administrations have used the IRS to seek retribution against political enemies, according to the 1989 book "A Law Unto Itself: Power, Politics, and the IRS," by former New York Times investigative journalist David Burnham, who died in October.

Those presidents include Calvin Coolidge, a Republican, and Franklin Roosevelt, a Democrat.

Richard Nixon, a Republican, also ordered the agency to audit people on his enemies' list - but the IRS commissioner at the time refused, said Timothy Naftali, a historian and former director of the Nixon Presidential Library in California.

"There's certainly a lot of people in the Nixon era who were quite convinced that Nixon had audited them," Naftali said.

Brian Davis, an accountant in Virginia who has handled audits for clients, said under US laws put in place after Nixon left office a president cannot directly order an audit.

However, "the fact that Comey and McCabe got those audits, it certainly raised some questions," he added.

Comey and McCabe declined requests for interviews.

Jamie Raskin, a senior House Democrat who was a lead prosecutor in Trump's second impeachment, said many members of Congress are keeping a close eye on who Trump will target, and how.

"Everybody is clearly following the various threats being leveled against private citizens and public officials," Raskin said.



Title: Blinken to announce more funding for Sudan at UN on Thursday, official says

Sudan's army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces have been locked in conflict for more than 18 months

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken delivers a statement to the press after the meeting with the foreign ministers of the Arab Contact Group on Syria in Jordan's southern city of Aqaba on Dec 14, 2024. ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/Pool via REUTERS

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will announce at the United Nations on Thursday additional funding for humanitarian assistance to Sudan and efforts to support civil society in the country, where a conflict has killed tens of thousands of people and driven millions from their homes.

Deputy US Representative to the United Nations Ned Price told reporters on Wednesday that Blinken will make a number of announcements when he chairs on Thursday a UN Security Council meeting on Sudan, which will focus on humanitarian assistance and protection of civilians.

The announcements will include additional funding for humanitarian assistance, and efforts to support civil society and, ultimately, the transition back to democracy, Price said.

"Sudan, unfortunately, has risked becoming a forgotten conflict," Price said.

"So part of the reason the secretary ... opted to convene a signature event on this very topic is to make sure it remains in the spotlight," Price said.

Sudan's army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces have been locked in conflict for more than 18 months, triggering a profound humanitarian crisis in which more than 12 million people have been driven from their homes and UN agencies have struggled to deliver relief.

The war erupted in April 2023 amid a power struggle between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the RSF ahead of a planned transition to civilian rule.

US-mediated talks in Geneva this year failed to achieve progress toward a ceasefire as the army refused to attend, but did secure promises from the warring parties to improve aid access.

Price said the United States would continue to work with allies for improved humanitarian access in Sudan and ultimately a cessation of hostilities before the end of President Joe Biden's term next month.

"We are going to leave nothing on the field in our efforts to work with allies, with partners, with the Sudanese stakeholders themselves, on the issues that matter most - humanitarian access, the provision of humanitarian assistance, ultimately, the process by which we can work to get to a cessation of hostilities, which is most urgently needed," he said.



Title: Trump must maintain vital fentanyl progress with China, White House says

China is the dominant source of chemical precursors used by Mexican cartels to produce fentanyl, a synthetic opioid that kills tens of thousands of Americans annually

Fentanyl precursors are displayed at Reuters' office in New York City, US, Jul 10, 2024. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly

While it is important to keep pressure on China to help further reduce US fentanyl deaths, the incoming Trump administration must be careful to maintain the progress President Joe Biden has made with Beijing on the issue, the head of the White House's drug-control policy said on Wednesday.

China is the dominant source of chemical precursors used by Mexican cartels to produce fentanyl, a synthetic opioid that kills tens of thousands of Americans annually. Trump has vowed an additional 10% tariff on Chinese goods after he takes office on Jan. 20 to push Beijing to do more to stop fentanyl flows into the US.

Rahul Gupta, White House director of drug-control policy, said progress had been made with China on fentanyl since Biden and Chinese leader Xi Jinping met in November 2023 and agreed to tackle the issue.

Gupta said China had taken offline many websites offering fentanyl precursors, and made arrests. He said it had also categorized more than 50 controlled substances since he visited Beijing in June."We are seeing on the ground, for those who are wanting to make fentanyl and traffic fentanyl, a real difficulty in obtaining the precursor chemicals," Gupta told Washington's Center for Strategic and International Studies

He said these steps had contributed to a fall in fentanyl deaths and progress cannot be allowed to slow down.

"While we work on other aspects in (the) relationship with China, it's going to be critical that we sustain this progress ... We can work to make China a part of the solution for this crisis, or they can remain a part of the problem."

Asked about Trump's tariff vow, Gupta said: "There's no harm in keeping the pressure. What we need to make sure is that the pressure is kept with a sense of understanding of what is already happening, and being aware of the progress that's already been made."

Trump's transition team did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Gupta's remarks.

On Tuesday, a bipartisan group of US lawmakers proposed three bills aimed at cracking down on China's role in the fentanyl crisis, with measures that would set up a task force to disrupt trafficking and pave the way for sanctions on Chinese entities.



Title: Thirteen dead after naval vessel hits passenger boat off Mumbai

The navy said 99 people are rescued with efforts ongoing for others

At least 13 people died when a boat with more than 100 passengers capsized off the coast of India's financial capital Mumbai after colliding with an Indian Navy boat on Wednesday, officials said.

The navy said 99 people were rescued with efforts ongoing for others.

"An Indian Navy craft lost control while undertaking engine trials in Mumbai Harbour due to engine malfunction. As a result, the boat collided with a passenger ferry which subsequently capsized," the Navy said in a statement on X.

Local TV channels showed a boat carrying at least five people hitting the passenger vehicle, causing the accident.

"The speedboat crashed into our boat and water started entering our boat and it overturned. The driver asked us to wear lifejackets," a passenger on board the vessel told ABP Majha news channel.

"I swam for fifteen minutes before I was rescued by another boat," said the passenger, who did not identify himself.

The privately-owned passenger boat, called Neelkamal, was heading towards the Elephanta caves, a popular tourist destination off the coast of Mumbai, when it capsized, BMC said.

The caves, which see a steady stream of tourists through the year, are a UNESCO heritage site and were constructed in the 5th-6th centuries AD.

Boats from the Gateway of India, Mumbai's southernmost point, make regular trips to ferry tourists to the site, an hour away.



Title: Chinese, Indian officials in talks to ease dispute over Himalayan border area

The meeting marks the first formal talks between the two countries' special representatives on Sino-India border issues since late 2019

China and India took a further step towards easing their long-running border dispute on Wednesday, with senior officials holding formal talks for the first time in five years and committing to finding mutually acceptable solutions.

The meeting in Beijing between Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and India's National Security Advisor Ajit Doval followed a milestone pact two months ago on lowering military tensions at a contested part of their border.

The two officials reaffirmed both sides' commitment to seek a package of solutions to the dispute that was fair and acceptable for both, a Chinese foreign ministry statement said.

They stressed the need to strengthen routine control and management of the border to maintain peace in the western Himalayan frontier area.

Ties between the two nuclear-armed neighbours have been severely strained since June 2020 after hand-to-hand combat in Galwan Valley led to the deaths of at least 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers.

The encounter was the deadliest since a brief war between India and China in 1962, also triggered by a dispute at their nearly 3,500 km (2,175-mile) border, known as the Line of Actual Control.

The two sides "emphasised the need to ensure peaceful conditions on the ground," a statement from India's foreign ministry said.

"Drawing on the learnings from the events of 2020, they discussed various measures to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border and advance effective border management."

In the last four years, both sides had deployed tens of thousands of troops and military equipment closer to their contested border in Ladakh, which has become a major flashpoint on the countries' poorly demarcated border.

Tensions and distrust between the neighbours have extended to other aspects of bilateral ties, with New Delhi slowing visa approvals for Chinese nationals, banning popular Chinese mobile apps and tightening scrutiny of investments from China.

Wednesday's meeting marked the first formal talks between the two countries' special representatives on border issues since late 2019. Paving the way for the talks was an agreement in October allowing for the disengagement of their troops at two face-off points.

Wang last met with Doval in September in St Petersburg, Russia, on the sidelines of a BRICS meeting on security matters, with the two agreeing to create conditions to improve ties.

A month later, Chinese President Xi Jinping met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Russia, days after the two countries reached the agreement on disengaging their troops and restoring their positions to pre-2020 locations.



Title: US alarmed Russia close to accepting nuclear-armed North Korea

North Korea's UN envoy says nuclear war in Northeast Asia is a matter of time

US Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield, speaks during a United Nations Security Council meeting on the situation in Gaza, at UN headquarters in New York City, US, October 16, 2024. REUTERS

The United States voiced alarm at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday that Russia was close to accepting a nuclear-armed North Korea, as Moscow and Pyongyang defended their growing cooperation.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in September that Moscow viewed the notion of "denuclearising" North Korea as a closed issue, as it understood Pyongyang's logic of relying on nuclear weapons as the foundation of its defence.

"Alarmingly, we assess that Russia may be close to accepting North Korea's nuclear-weapons program, reversing Moscow's decades-long commitment to denuclearise the Korean Peninsula," said US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield.

"We believe that Moscow will become more reluctant not only to criticise Pyongyang's development of nuclear weapons, but also further obstruct passage of sanctions or resolutions condemning North Korea's destabilising behaviour," she said.

South Korea and Britain both criticized Lavrov's remarks, saying he had undermined the global non-proliferation regime. Britain's Deputy UN Ambassador James Kariuki described Lavrov's comment as a "reckless departure from the agreed principle of complete, verifiable and irreversible disarmament."

Russia's UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia did not reference North Korea's nuclear program when he addressed the council. He defended the growing cooperation between Moscow and Pyongyang as Russia's sovereign right.

"Russian cooperation with the DPRK ... is in accordance with international law, not in violation thereof," he said, using the acronym for North Korea's official name. "This is not directed against any third countries. It does not pose any threat to states in the region or the international community, and have no doubt we will continue to develop such cooperation."

Russia has forged closer diplomatic and military ties with North Korea since invading Ukraine in February 2022 and Russian President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un have visited each other's countries.

Russia is using North Korean troops to battle Ukrainian forces holding an enclave in Russia's Kursk region.

North Korea's UN Ambassador Kim Song described the closer ties with Russia as a "positive contribution to international peace and security." Citing what Pyongyang sees as a US-led nuclear-based military bloc in the region, he also said: "Outbreak of the nuclear war in Northeast Asia is no longer a possibility, but a matter of time."

South Korea's UN Ambassador Joonkook Hwang warned the Security Council to "expect further uncertainties looming over the horizon" ahead of US President-elect Donald Trump taking office for a second term next month.

"North Korea has a history of provocative actions during US presidential transitions, designed to grab attention, raise the stakes and set the stage for direct negotiations with the new US administration," Hwang said.

"This pattern can recur within the upcoming months. This time it could be another ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missile) or military satellite launch or even its seventh nuclear test," he said.

North Korea has been under UN Security Council sanctions since 2006, and the measures have been steadily strengthened over the years with the aim of halting Pyongyang's development of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.



Title: Russian minister says Moscow can definitely work with Trump administration

The minister says Moscow can work with Trump after he is sworn in as US president next month

US President Donald Trump gestures during a bilateral meeting with Russia's President Vladimir Putin at the G20 leaders summit in Osaka, Japan, Jun 28, 2019. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

Russia can definitely work with the administration of Donald Trump after he is sworn in as US president next month, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said on Wednesday.

Ryabkov reiterated accusations by Moscow that "reckless" actions by the West had raised the risk of nuclear war and described the global security as depressing. Russia, he said, wanted to reduce the potential for conflict.

"Managing this crisis and getting to less shaky ground than now should be put on the agenda of hypothetical discussions with the Americans," Ryabkov told a panel discussion.

"Is it possible to work with the Trump administration? It's definitely possible," he replied when asked about the potential for cooperation.

His comments were the latest signal that Moscow, once Trump takes office, hopes for an improvement in bilateral ties which the Kremlin has said are currently "below zero".

President Vladimir Putin said last month that Trump's comments about ending the war in Ukraine - which the American has said repeatedly he could halt very quickly, but without saying how - were deserving of attention.

Ryabkov said he wanted to underline that no contacts of any kind had so far taken place between Russia and the incoming Trump team.



Title: Trump rejects bipartisan US spending bill, raising government shutdown risk

Trump instead urged Congress to pass legislation that would tie up loose ends before he takes office next month by raising the government's borrowing authority

FILE PHOTO: US President-elect Donald Trump delivers remarks at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, US, Dec 16, 2024. REUTERS/Brian Snyder/File Photo

President-elect Donald Trump Wednesday disrupted bipartisan efforts to avert a government shutdown as he pressured his fellow Republicans in Congress to reject a stopgap bill to keep the government funded past the end of the week.

Trump instead urged Congress to pass legislation that would tie up loose ends before he takes office next month by raising the government's borrowing authority -- a politically difficult task -- and extending government funding. He also said lawmakers should strip out elements backed by Democrats, whose support would be necessary for passage.

Trump's attempt to influence Congress more than a month before he takes office could complicate efforts to avert a shutdown that would disrupt everything from air travel to law enforcement in the days leading up to the Dec 25 Christmas holiday.

He warned that Republicans who vote for the current legislative package could have trouble getting re-elected.

"Any Republican that would be so stupid as to do this should, and will, be Primaried," Trump wrote on social media.

It would be the first government shutdown since one that extended through December 2018 into 2019, during Trump's first four-year White House term.

Democrats currently hold a majority in the Senate, and Democratic President Joe Biden remains in power until Trump takes office on Jan 20.

The current bill would fund government agencies at current levels and provide $100 billion for disaster relief and $10 billion in farm aid. It also includes a wide range of unrelated provisions, such as a pay raise for lawmakers and a crackdown on hidden hotel fees.

Trump said Congress should limit the bill to temporary spending and disaster relief and also raise the national debt ceiling now before it comes to a head next year.

"Unless the Democrats terminate or substantially extend the Debt Ceiling now, I will fight 'till the end," Trump said on his Truth Social site.

Congress's next steps were unclear. Bipartisan agreement will be needed to pass any spending bill through the House of Representatives, where Republicans currently have a 219-211 majority, and the Senate.

The stopgap measure is needed because Congress has failed to pass regular spending legislation for the fiscal year that began on Oct 1. It does not cover benefit programs like Social Security, which continue automatically.

The US government has spent more money than it has taken in for more than 20 years, as Democrats have expanded health programs and Republicans have cut taxes. An aging population is projected to push up the cost of retirement and health programs in the years to come.

Steadily mounting debt - currently $36 trillion - will force lawmakers to raise the debt ceiling at some point, either now or when borrowing authority runs out next year. Failure to act could shock bond markets with potentially severe economic consequences.

MUSK WADES IN

Trump's comments came after his ally Elon Musk pressured Congress to reject the bill and said those who back it should be voted out of office.

The Tesla chief executive and world's richest person, who spent more than $250 million to help Trump get elected, has been tasked by Trump to prune the federal budget.

Unless Congress acts, the federal government will run out of money to fund operations on Saturday. The deal reached on Tuesday would have extended funding through Mar 14.

House Republicans huddled in the office of Speaker Mike Johnson late Wednesday to determine their next move. Even before Trump and Musk weighed in, some on the party's right flank had come out against the bill on the grounds that it spent too much money and included too many unrelated provisions.

"The Speaker tried to get the votes and the necessary votes weren't there. And then we saw what happened on social media, and a lot of folks have, you know, had second thoughts. And so now we got to recalibrate,” Representative Kevin Hern told reporters outside Johnson's office.

Republican Representative Mike Rogers said changes to the debt ceiling should not be included in the current negotiations.

"It's complicated enough without that," he told reporters. Democrats said Republicans had walked away from a bipartisan deal.

"House Republicans have been ordered to shut down the government and hurt everyday Americans all across this country," House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries said at a news conference. "House Republicans will now own any harm that is visited upon the American people that results from a government shutdown.”

Trump in the past has sometimes voiced support for government shutdowns, and the 2018-2019 one was the longest in US history, lasting 34 days.

Musk has emerged as one of the biggest spenders in US politics this year, and his threat could resonate with some Republicans. It likely carries less weight with Democrats who represent solidly liberal areas, or senators from both parties who will not be up for re-election for another six years. Musk tried and failed in November to influence the outcome of the Senate Republicans' leadership contest.

A wide range of government services would be disrupted if Congress does not act before Saturday, including agencies like the Pentagon and NASA that do business with Musk's companies.



Title: Who are the immigrants who could be targeted in Trump's mass deportation plans?

At least 11 million immigrants in 2022 lacked legal status or had temporary protections in the US

Immigration activists march in solidarity with migrants and against deportations in Los Angeles, California, US, December 18, 2024. REUTERS

President-elect Donald Trump plans to launch a mass deportation operation targeting millions of immigrants living in the US illegally and with temporary protections once he takes office on Jan. 20, a challenging initiative that could split apart families and affect US businesses.

There were roughly 11 million immigrants in the US illegally or with a temporary status at the start of 2022, a figure that some analysts say has increased to 13-14 million. Those with temporary protections are not immediately deportable and many live in “sanctuary” states that limit cooperation with federal immigration enforcement.

WHERE DO IMMIGRANTS WITHOUT LEGAL STATUS LIVE?

California was the state with the most immigrants in the US illegally with some 2.2 million in 2022, according to estimates by the Center for Migration Studies of New York, a nonpartisan think tank.

Texas was close behind with 1.8 million, followed by Florida (936,000), New York (672,000). New Jersey (495,000) and Illinois (429,000).

California, New York, New Jersey and Illinois - all Democratic strongholds - are among 11 states with “sanctuary” laws or policies that limit cooperation with federal immigration enforcement, according to the Immigrant Legal Resource Center.

Some 44% of immigrants in the US illegally lived in sanctuary states in 2022, according to the center’s estimate. That figure does not include those in sanctuary cities and counties in places without a state-wide law, such as New Mexico.

Most of the immigrants taken into custody by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) are caught illegally crossing the border or are referred from state and local prisons and jails.

Law enforcement in sanctuary states typically refuse to alert ICE when they detain or release an immigrant eligible for deportation.

WHERE DO IMMIGRANTS WITHOUT LEGAL STATUS COME FROM?

Nearly half of the immigrants in the US illegally in 2022 came from Mexico, amounting to 4.8 million of 11 million overall, according to a US Department of Homeland Security report.

Other top countries were Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras.

Since January 2022, some 2 million immigrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua and Venezuela were either caught crossing illegally or allowed to enter via Biden-era humanitarian programmes, according to DHS statistics.

Trump intends to end the Biden entry programs, including one for migrants with US sponsors and another that allows migrants in Mexico to use an app to enter through a legal border crossing.

WHERE DO IMMIGRANTS IN THE US ILLEGALLY WORK?

The vast majority of the immigrants in the US illegally in 2022 were prime working age, according to the DHS report. About 8.7 million of the 11 million were ages 18-54.

Farm groups have urged Trump to spare their workers from his promised mass deportations, arguing their removal would upend the US food supply chain.

Think tanks and the US government have varying estimates for the number of agricultural workers that live in the US illegally. The Center for Migration Studies of New York found the total number to be 283,000 in 2022, with about half in California. US government estimates suggest the nationwide total could be closer to 1 million.

HOW MANY AMERICANS LIVE IN ‘MIXED-STATUS HOUSEHOLDS’?

The immigration advocacy group FWD.us projected there could be as many as 14.5 million immigrants without legal status or with temporary protections by January 2025, up from the 11 million in 2022.

Of those, 10.1 million live with a US citizen or permanent resident, what’s known as a “mixed-status household.”

The figure suggests that a large-scale deportation initiative would likely split up families and could affect millions of US citizens and permanent residents.

At least 5.1 million US citizen children live with an immigrant parent who lacks legal status, according to a FWD.us analysis of government data.

Those families could face the prospect of relocating to another country together or be separated.

HOW LONG HAVE IMMIGRANTS WHO LACK LEGAL STATUS LIVED IN THE US?

Some 54% of immigrants in the US illegally had lived in the country for more than 10 years as of 2022, according to the report by Center for Migration Studies of New York.

About 25% had been in the country for less than five years.

HOW MANY IMMIGRANTS IN THE US NOW LACK LEGAL STATUS?

DHS, the Center for Migration Studies of New York and other think tanks have used US Census data and other figures to estimate that there were about 11 million immigrants in the US in 2022 who either lacked legal immigration status or had temporary humanitarian protections.

DHS enforcement and entry statistics suggest that at least 5 million more immigrants entered the US without legal status or with a temporary humanitarian status since then.

However, some of those immigrants have since been deported, voluntarily left, obtained legal status or died over the same period. An up-to-date estimate that factors in all of these outcomes is not available.

ARE PEOPLE WITH TEMPORARY PROTECTIONS COUNTED IN THESE ESTIMATES?

Yes, the estimates of immigrants in the US illegally typically include people who have temporary humanitarian protections, meaning they would not be immediately deportable.

The protections include 1.1 million people covered by Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as of Sept 30. TPS grants deportation relief and access to work permits to people already in the US if their home countries are deemed unsafe due to armed conflict, natural disasters, or other extraordinary circumstances.

The designations last six- to 18-months but can be renewed indefinitely. Trump sought to end most TPS enrollment during his 2017-2021 presidency but was blocked by federal courts.

He is expected to try to end most TPS enrollment as the protections expire, but the process would face litigation.

Thousands more have a similar status known as Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) that Trump could also try to roll back.

Another 535,000 people have deportation relief and work permits through the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programme for “Dreamer” immigrants brought to the US illegally as children.

Trump tried to end the DACA programme during his first term but was rebuffed by the Supreme Court.

Trump is expected to again try to end DACA although he said in a recent interview that he would be open to a deal to protect “Dreamers.”

The state of Texas is currently leading a lawsuit against the program that could make its way back to the Supreme Court during Trump’s presidency.



Title: Mayotte cyclone kills several hundred, maybe thousands, in worst storm in century

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital

A view shows damage caused by the Cyclone Chido, in Kaweni, Mayotte, France in this screengrab from a social media video, obtained by Reuters on December 14, 2024. @foulani2.00 via TikTok via REUTERS

Several hundred people and possibly even thousands may have been killed when the most powerful cyclone in nearly a century hit the French Indian Ocean archipelago of Mayotte, a senior local French official said on Sunday.

"I think there will certainly be several hundreds, maybe we will reach a thousand, even several thousands," prefect Francois-Xavier Bieuville said on local media channel Mayotte La 1ere.

Asked about the death toll from Cyclone Chido, the French interior ministry said "it will be difficult to account for all victims" and a figure could not be determined at this stage.

Cyclone Chido hit Mayotte overnight, Meteo-France said, with winds of more than 200 kph (124 mph), damaging housing, government buildings and a hospital. It was the strongest storm in more than 90 years to hit the islands, the forecaster said.

"Honestly, what we are experiencing is a tragedy, you feel like you are in the aftermath of a nuclear war… I saw an entire neighborhood disappear," Mohamed Ishmael, a resident of Mayotte's capital Mamoudzou, told Reuters by phone.

Aerial footage shared by the French gendarmerie showed the wreckage of hundreds of makeshift houses strewn across the hills of one of Mayotte's islands, which have been a focal point for illegal immigration from nearby Comoros.

Local media images showed a mother pushing a newborn baby's crib along the flooded corridor of Mayotte's hospital. Capsized police boats lay onshore while coconut trees had crashed through the roofs of many buildings.

"My thoughts are with our compatriots in Mayotte, who have gone through the most horrific few hours, and who have, for some, lost everything, lost their lives," French President Emmanuel Macron said.

In the last few decades thousands of people have attempted to make the crossing from Comoros, off the coast of East Africa, to Mayotte, which has a higher standard of living and access to the French welfare system.

Over 100,000 undocumented migrants live in Mayotte, according to the French interior ministry.

It was difficult to ascertain the precise death toll after the cyclone, which also raised concerns about access to food, water and sanitation, authorities said.

"For the toll, it's going to be complicated, because Mayotte is a Muslim land where the dead are buried within 24 hours," a French interior ministry official said earlier.

Located nearly 8,000 km (5,000 miles) from Paris, Mayotte is significantly poorer than the rest of France and has grappled with gang violence and social unrest for decades.

More than three-quarters of the people in Mayotte live below the French poverty line. Tensions were stoked earlier this year by a water shortage.

An air bridge was being put in place from Reunion island, another French overseas territory on the other side of Madagascar, the government said.

The disaster is the first challenge faced by Prime Minister Francois Bayrou, days after he was named by Macron following the collapse of the previous government.

The cyclone went on to hit northern Mozambique on Sunday, but the full extent of the impact was not clear. Internet monitor NetBlocks said on X that heavy rain and winds had damaged power and telecommunications infrastructure.

In Comoros, two people were slightly injured, 24 displaced, and 21 homes were destroyed, authorities said.

France colonised Mayotte in 1843 and annexed the whole archipelago, including Comoros, in 1904.

In a 1974 referendum, 95% backed separation but 63% on Mayotte voted to stay French. Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli declared independence in 1975. Mayotte is still ruled from Paris.



Title: Monarch butterfly may gain threatened species status in US

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade

A monarch butterfly flutters in a field of marigolds, the traditional flower believed to guide the dead back to their loved ones, grown for use during Day of the Dead celebrations, in Boquillas, Mexico Oct 20, 2024. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril

The US Fish and Wildlife Service proposed listing the monarch butterfly as a threatened species on Tuesday, citing a significant decline in the iconic black and orange insects that has pushed them toward extinction.

WHY IT'S IMPORTANT

Monarch butterflies, known for migrating thousands of miles (km) across North America, have experienced a decades-long U.S. population decline due to habitat loss caused by human activities such as farming and urban development, widespread use of pesticides and climate change.

Environmental groups have been pushing for US protection of the winged pollinators for a decade.

KEY QUOTE

"The iconic monarch butterfly is cherished across North America, captivating children and adults throughout its fascinating lifecycle," US FWS Director Martha Williams said in a statement.

"Despite its fragility, it is remarkably resilient, like many things in nature when we just give them a chance. Science shows that the monarch needs that chance, and this proposed listing invites and builds on unprecedented public participation in shaping monarch conservation efforts," she added

CONTEXT

Despite being recognised as needing federal protection under the Endangered Species Act four years ago, the monarch butterfly waited behind dozens of other species facing more immediate threats.

The ESA, signed into law in 1973, is credited with helping to save the bald eagle, California condor and numerous other animals and plants from extinction. ESA protection makes it illegal to kill or harm species classified as threatened or endangered without a special permit.

BY THE NUMBERS

The eastern migratory monarch population has declined by about 80% since the 1980s, while the western migratory population has dropped by more than 95%. The declines put the western populations at greater than 99% chance of extinction by 2080, according to the FWS.

The agency is proposing to designate 4,395 acres (1,780 hectares) in California as "critical habitat" for the butterflies. Federal agencies are prohibited from destroying or modifying areas with that designation.

WHAT'S NEXT

The public will have until March 12, 2025 to comment on the proposal to list the monarch butterfly. The service will then evaluate the comments and any additional information on the species to determine whether to list the monarch butterfly.



Title: Govt advises people with health issues to stay indoors as air pollution rises

Environment ministry urges mask use for those venturing outside amid alarming air quality

The air quality in Dhaka and its surrounding areas has fluctuated between "unhealthy" and "hazardous," prompting the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to advise individuals at risk to avoid going outside unless necessary.

The ministry recommended using masks for anyone needing to step outdoors in these conditions in a statement on Tuesday.

Citizens were also urged to monitor the environment department’s website for regular updates and take appropriate precautions.

Data from international air quality monitoring platform IQAir showed that Dhaka’s Air Quality Index, or AQI, stood at 193 at 6pm on Tuesday, categorised as "unhealthy."

At that time, Dhaka ranked second among cities with the worst air quality globally.

The AQI worsened after 10pm, remaining above 200—sometimes even exceeding 300—through to the following afternoon.

Air quality levels depend on the concentration of fine particulate matter, such as PM10 and PM2.5, measured in micrograms per cubic metre.

Other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-level ozone also contribute to the AQI.

An AQI score of 51-100 is considered "moderate" or "acceptable."

Scores between 101-150 are "unhealthy for sensitive groups."

Scores between 151-200 indicate "unhealthy" air.

Scores of 201-300 represent "very unhealthy" conditions.

Anything above 300 is deemed "hazardous" or "disastrous."

According to the environment department’s AQI data, Dhaka's air quality has mostly remained above 150 since Oct 12, except for 12 days when it dropped below this level.

During this 59-day period, the AQI exceeded 200 on 13 days.

Last Thursday, Dhaka's AQI hit 335.

To combat air pollution, the environment ministry has issued directives to halt the burning of solid waste, install covers and enclosures at construction sites, transport construction materials under covers, spray water at least twice daily around such sites, and bar the use of old or smoke-producing vehicles on the roads.

Brick kiln operators, factory owners, and the public have also been urged to comply with these measures.

The ministry emphasised that tackling air pollution requires collaborative efforts from the government and citizens.



Title: Extreme heat puts garment factory workers at risk, study shows

The study report urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves

Garment workers come out of a factory during the lunch break as factories remain open despite a countrywide lockdown, in Dhaka, Bangladesh, July 6, 2021. REUTERS

Workers in some of the world's biggest garment manufacturing hubs in Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Pakistan are increasingly exposed to extreme heat as climate change pushes temperatures up, a report found on Sunday, a problem multinational retailers and brands will have to help address.

New European Union regulations make retailers selling in the bloc, like Inditex, H&M and Nike, legally liable for conditions at their suppliers, putting pressure on them to help fund improvements to cool factories they source from.

In Dhaka, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh and Karachi, the number of days with "wet-bulb" temperatures - a measurement that accounts for air temperature as well as humidity - above 30.5 degrees Celsius jumped by 42% in 2020-2024 compared to 2005-2009, researchers at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute found.

Above that threshold, the International Labor Organisation recommends as much rest as work in any given hour to maintain safe core body temperature levels.

The report identified only three retailers - Nike, Levi's, and VF Corp - which specifically include protocols to protect workers from heat exhaustion in their supplier codes of conduct.

COMPANIES WARNED

"We've been talking to brands for ages now about this issue, and they're only now starting to turn their attention to it," Jason Judd, executive director at Cornell University's Global Labor Institute, told Reuters.

"If a brand or retailer knows that temperatures in a production area are excessively high or doing damage to worker health, then they're obligated under this new set of rules to do something about it," he added.

The EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive came into force in July and will start applying to large companies from mid-2027.

Fixes to cool factories could include better ventilation and water evaporative cooling systems, instead of energy-intensive and expensive air conditioning that would increase manufacturers' carbon emissions.

Some factory owners would likely be willing to make such investments themselves, given how heat stress significantly impacts productivity, Judd said, but the EU rules highlight brands' responsibility to address the issue too.

The report also urged retailers and brands to invest in higher wages and health protections so that workers can manage the risk of missing work days due to heatwaves.

Extreme heat and flooding could erase $65 billion in apparel export earnings from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Pakistan and Vietnam by 2030, research from asset manager Schroders and the Global Labor Institute found last year.



Title: 2024 will be the hottest year on record, EU scientists say

The data comes two weeks after a $300bn deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient

This year will be the world's warmest since records began, with extraordinarily high temperatures expected to persist into at least the first few months of 2025, European Union scientists said on Monday.

The data from the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) comes two weeks after UN climate talks yielded a $300-billion deal to tackle climate change, a package poorer countries blasted as insufficient to cover the soaring cost of climate-related disasters.

C3S said data from January to November had confirmed 2024 is now certain to be the hottest year on record, and the first in which average global temperatures exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period.

The previous hottest year on record was 2023.

Extreme weather has swept around the world in 2024, with severe drought hitting Italy and South America, fatal floods in Nepal, Sudan and Europe, heatwaves in Mexico, Mali and Saudi Arabia that killed thousands, and disastrous cyclones in the US and the Philippines.

Scientific studies have confirmed the fingerprints of human-caused climate change on all of these disasters.

Last month ranked as the second-warmest November on record after November 2023.

"We're still in near-record-high territory for global temperatures, and that's likely to stay at least for the next few months," Copernicus climate researcher Julien Nicolas told Reuters.

Carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels are the main cause of climate change.

Cutting emissions to net zero - as many governments have pledged to eventually do - will stop global warming from getting worse. Yet despite these green pledges, global CO2 emissions are set to hit a record high this year.

Scientists are also monitoring whether the La Nina weather pattern - which involves the cooling of ocean surface temperatures - could form in 2025.

That could briefly cool global temperatures, though it would not halt the long-term underlying trend of warming caused by emissions. The world is currently in neutral conditions, after El Nino - La Nina's hotter counterpart - ended earlier this year.

"While 2025 might be slightly cooler than 2024, if a La Nina event develops, this does not mean temperatures will be 'safe' or 'normal'," said Friederike Otto, a senior lecturer at Imperial College London.

"We will still experience high temperatures, resulting in dangerous heatwaves, droughts, wildfires and tropical cyclones."

C3S' records go back to 1940, and are cross-checked with global temperature records going back to 1850.



Title: World Court to open climate change hearings

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant

People walk through water at a flooded area affected by rising sea levels and land subsidence in North Jakarta, Indonesia, Nov 20, 2024. REUTERS/Willy Kurniawan

The United Nations' top court on Monday starts hearings on the legal obligation of countries to fight climate change and the consequences for states of contributing to global warming, the outcome of which could influence litigation worldwide.

Vanuatu, one of the small island states that spearheaded the effort to get the International Court of Justice to give a so-called advisory opinion, will be the first of over a hundred states and international organisations to give their views in two weeks of proceedings starting at 10am (0900 GMT).

While the court's advisory opinions are not binding, they are legally and politically significant. Experts say the court's eventual opinion on climate change will likely be cited in climate change-driven lawsuits in courts from Europe to Latin America and beyond.

The hearings begin a week after developing nations denounced as woefully inadequate an agreement reached at the COP29 summit for countries to provide $300 billion in annual climate finance by 2035 to help poorer nations cope with climate change.

Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu's special envoy for climate change and the environment, said it was imperative fossil fuels be phased out and more money provided to poorer nations bearing the brunt of climate change, such as his Pacific island nation.

"We would like cumulative historical emissions that cause significant harm to the climate system to be declared unlawful," Regenvanu told Reuters.

Aside from small island states and numerous Western and developing countries, the court will also hear from the world's top two emitters of greenhouse gases, the United States and China. Oil producer group OPEC will also give its views.

The hearings will run until Dec 13. The court's opinion is expected to be delivered in 2025.



